__label__relevant refuge on margins of society refuge on margins of societyin a dilapidated building nestled in the heart of phnom penh , two slumbering girls lay curled on a mattress in a room shaped like a matchbox . as the door to their room inside a safe house swung open , they remained balled up on their bed , lightly exhaling in unison . the pair are among eight between the ages of eight and 20 who reside at the cambodian women ’ s development agency ’ s ( cdwa ) safe shelter , created to protect up to 20 women and girls ata time from trafficking , rape and gender - based violence . “ if they weren ’ t here , they would probably be at high risk of more violence or sleeping on the streets . women and girls needs safe havens like this in cambodia , ” said fiona mann , 26 , an advocacy and policy adviser for cwda . pich * was six years old when her father died of hepatitis , leaving her mother with five young children to feed and no money for groceries . pich ’ s mother sold her as collateral to a loan shark , who then , in turn , forced her to work in a local market until she was 12 . now 19 , she has just hit her seventh year living in the safe house and hopes to start university next year . when she ’ s not lending an extra hand at the shelter , volunteering for a local youth - oriented ngo is one way she loves to spend her days . narrowed optionsabused and trafficked women have limited options in a country where the officials charged with upholding the laws can sometimes be the perpetrators of violence , and sex workers are particularly vulnerable to acts of violence from state authorities in government - run safe houses . a human rights watch ( hrw ) report from 2010 noted : “ women and girls involved in sex work face beatings , rape , sexual harassment , extortion , arbitrary arrest and detention , forced labour , and other cruel and degrading treatment at the hands of police , public park security guards , governmental officials , and those working in the centers and offices run by the ministry of social affairs , veterans , and youth rehabilitation ( mosavy ) . ” since the report ’ s release , the government has shuttered three of its rehabilitation centres , but according to a second report released this month by hrw , titled they treat us like animals , the kingdom ’ s drug detention centres are still locking up individuals deemed “ undesirable ” by the government , including sex workers , with a complete lack of due process . evidence of abused cambodian women with no faith in the authorities can be found throughout the capital ’ s safe - houses . but it ’ s not just women . sophea * , a 26 - year - old gay man , is no stranger to harassment . many of his friends , both men and women , have spent unwarranted time in pre - trial detention without legal representation on charges of public incitement . “ we call each other if we get in trouble , ” sophea said , adding that he had routinely been picked up and harassed simply for congregating with friends in the wat phnom area . social discrimination against the lgbqt population in cambodia is rampant , according to sophea , a theme that often begins at home . “ parents and relatives often ask gays and transgender people to leave home . sometimes , we can ’ t go to school . many of us rent a large room and live together to support one another , ” sophea said , noting that he had lived this way in poipet and phnom penh . if sex workers or gay people get hustled out of the wat , or if someone is held for too long in designated buildings paid for by the ministry of women ’ s affairs – which ignored repeated requests to comment for this article – they self - organise by calling their friends . “ we can bring food and water for them if they are suspected sex workers and being held ” for various stretches of time , sophea said . the community is also uniquely vulnerable to sexual crimes . a un - backed study released this september found one in five cambodian men have committed rape , but more than 44 per cent of them have never faced any legal consequences . the same study revealed that in cambodia gang rape has the second - highest prevalence in the region . bauk , a khmer word meaning “ plus ” in the context of the kingdom ’ s sex industry , often involves a man purchasing a sex worker who is then passed among a group of friends , according to male and female sex workers interviewed for this article . part of the problem in cracking down on such crimes is that trafficking and sex work are rarely classified separately in cambodia – making it difficult for sex workers to advocate for their rights . cheryl overs , a researcher and human rights activist from melbourne who specialises in hiv prevention and care programs for male , female and transgender sex workers in developing countries , has linked that joint categorisation to a lack of protection for workers . “ the important story in cambodia is the conflation of sexual exploitation and sex work that has led to the elimination of the term and the concept ‘sex worker ’ and ensured that sex workers have no voice at all in cambodia , ” overs wrote in an email in november . by pairing sexual exploitation and sex work , essentially invalidating sex work as a viable means of earning money , many argue that everyone becomes a “ victim , ” she explained . that attitude can often lead to attacking the surface symptoms rather than the root problems , she said . so while a press - friendly “ brothel bust ” may save one or two people living in hopeless conditions , the endemic reasons women and children end up in those situations in the first place are largely ignored . the kingdom ’ s implementation of the law on the suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation ( lhtse ) in 2008 renders all forms of prostitution illegal . a downside of the law was that it had driven the sex industry underground , making sex workers more vulnerable to abuse , overs said . programs launched in the wake of the law ’ s passage have also come under attack for not delivering what was intended . a sex worker in tuol kork puts on stockings in preparation for a night ’ s work in phnom penh . sovan philongenter the unionswith their work often conflated with trafficking , and sexual crimes against women increasingly widespread , some sex workers have sought protection by unionising . cwda – which hosts the shelter that is home to pich and seven others – doubles as the parent organisation of the cambodian prostitutes union ( cpu ) . the cpu was formed to protect the occupational health and safety of entertainment workers , including “ women who sell sex directly and indirect sex workers who work in massage parlours , beer gardens and karaoke bars , ” according to cwda ’ s last annual report . women with little to no cash can still become members of the cpu , because the union charges no membership fee , says keo sichan , the program coordinator of the group ’ s women ’ s health and hiv / aids program . while they aren ’ t eligible to live in the safe house , which is reserved for those in danger of trafficking or violence , entertainment workers – including those living with hiv / aids in daun penh , russey keo and tuol kork districts – are provided education about safe working practices and the law , according to sichan . and the cpu is not alone . in 2000 , five ngos helped the kingdom ’ s sex workers establish a collective of women working in the sex industry , known as the women ’ s network for unity ( wnu ) . today , membership includes more than 6 , 000 people across seven provinces , according to malis * , a member and former president . this figure , however , has not been independently verified . while local ngos were key to the establishment of the union , today , it is self - governed because of members ’ intimate knowledge of the working conditions sex workers confront day to day . “ we are the ones experiencing domestic violence and rape , so we want to run the organisation ourselves , ” she said . malis , who served as president for three years , joined the collective in 2001 after an ngo worker recruited her from a massage parlour in svay pak commune , an area notorious for brothels . today , she earns about $15 a day plying for her own customers on the street . “ we must help one another , ” she said . “ teaching sex workers about where they can go if they are hurt is one way we try and do that . ” educating wnu members about sexual health and legal rights is another avenue the collective uses to alleviate the dangers sex workers face . each sub - section of the union has an elected representative that serves for three years – transgender sex workers and gay and lesbian sex workers are all represented by their own elected leader who represents their interests during biannual meetings . the wnu charges a nominal membership fee , used to offset healthcare costs if workers are hurt on the job . if a member is in need of a blood test for hiv / aids , needs medical attention or an abortion , the union helps facilitate access to these services at the japanese and khmer - soviet friendship hospitals , malis said . “ if we ’ re concerned a member has hiv / aids , we send them to rhac , and if they want an abortion , we send them to marie stopes , ” she said , adding that an abortion costs around $30 at marie stopes cambodia [msi] but members of the organisation only have to pay $7 - $10 . ( stefanie wallach , country director for msi cambodia , said that while she was unaware of any special relationship between the organisation and the wnu , the price of medical care was at the discretion of each centre director based on an individual ’ s needs , and it was not policy to give discounts to sex workers or their unions . ) mara * represents the wnu ’ s transgender sex workers , of which she says there are more than 100 members in eight provinces , and began working in the sex industry in 1993 to help her mother provide for her two young nieces – her family has no idea that the money used to buy their food is earned on the streets . dressing like a woman comes at a cost when mara ’ s customers discover she has male genitalia . her face betrayed emotion as she explained how angry and drunk customers often beat her after discovering what she looks like naked . still , despite the dangers , living without that income was an even more frightening prospect . “ before i was a sex worker , i used to sell oranges and their juice for about 500 riel near independence monument . but things are different now . everything costs so much . ” * the names of interviewees have been changed to protect their identities . 
__label__relevant call to decriminalize sex work likely to fall on deaf ears call to decriminalize sex work likely to fall on deaf earssex workers remain among the most vulnerable individuals in the world today , amnesty international said . sex workers remain among the most vulnerable individuals in the world today , amnesty international said . photo : anne holmesphnom penh ( khmer times ) – sex workers in cambodia work in a legal no - man ’ s land . though selling sex is illegal according to a human trafficking law passed in 2008 , police rarely enforce the law , turning a blind eye in return for bribes or sexual favors , according to advocacy groups working on the issue . brothels were shut down in a 2008 crackdown as a result of the law , but many sex workers continue to work in karaoke parlors or on public sidewalks . amnesty international says the criminalization of sex work only puts these women in greater danger of abuse from clients or police . in a landmark decision tuesday , amnesty ’ s decision - making body , the international council meeting , voted for a resolution supporting “ the full decriminalization of all aspects of consensual sex work . ” the resolution has no legal power , but amnesty international will begin lobbying governments , including cambodia ’ s , to legalize the sex trade . the decision has stoked controversy , with supporters saying it will make sex workers safer , while opponents say it will only clear the way for pimps to exploit their workers and strengthen the sex trade . outside the law “ sex workers are one of the most marginalized groups in the world , who in most instances face constant risk of discrimination , violence and abuse . our global movement paved the way for adopting a policy for the protection of the human rights of sex workers , ” amnesty international secretary general salil shetty said in a statement yesterday . those who work directly with sex workers say keeping their trade illegal increases the risk of abuse . teo sichan , program director for the cambodia women ’ s development agency , has worked with phnom penh sex workers for years , walking through tuol kork neighborhood at night handing out condoms and teaching them about safe sex . she said the passage of a 2008 anti - trafficking law led to a crackdown on brothels , forcing many sex workers to begin “ freelancing ” in karaoke parlors , nightclubs , or riskier venues such as public parks and streets . many of the women take their clients back to a guesthouse , but it is easier for them to be abducted , abused , or worse . “ independent work on the streets is more dangerous , ” ms . sichan said . on july 31 , six construction workers confessed to raping and murdering a 26 - year - old karaoke parlor worker in pur senchey neighborhood . one of them waited until she left the venue , then paid her $10 to accompany him back to a temporary shelter at the construction site . once there , he and the other men raped her and then beat her to death , according to their testimony in court . blurred linespolice can be part of the problem , ms . sichan said . “ the police always control the public areas , and they identify who the sex workers are , but most of the time they ignore them , ” she explained . sometimes , though , some police take advantage of prostitutes , threatening them with detention if they don ’ t pay a bribe , she added . “ sometimes the officer is good , sometimes the officer is bad . ” it is an open secret that women are sometimes forced to pay police part of their earnings to keep working on the street . “ the sex workers have to pay the police $10 to get out of the detention centers , ” said chan dyna , technical coordinator of the cambodia prostitute union . other times money isn ’ t enough , and the officers expect sexual favors . despite the exploitation , sex workers do not resort to legal action : “ most of them don ’ t want to use legal assistance against police , ” ms . sichan said , “ because they are afraid . ” some prostitutes have even stopped carrying condoms , since the condoms could be used as evidence against them in court if police arrest them . this puts them at greater risk of contracting sexually transmitted infections ( stis ) . when they are arrested , the women are sent to temporary detention centers like prey speu , which ms . sichan described as little better than prison . they sometimes also receive vocational training from ngos to help them find a new career , but ms . sichan said the arrests and vocational training do little to help women break out of the sex trade . “ they go back to work , ” ms . sichan said . “ nobody can stop them . because of the economic crisis they have to work to support their families . ” amnesty ’ s call unlikely to be heededif amnesty international successfully lobbies cambodia to legalize the sex trade , it would make the country ’ s sex - worker legislation as permissive as the netherlands . ngos that work closely with sex workers say it would be a welcome change . “ the law should not forbid [sex workers] from doing business – it should educate them about stis , ” said ms . dyna . nevertheless , ngo workers say it is unlikely that amnesty international ’ s new policy will lead the country to adopt more lenient punishments for sex workers . ms . sichan said there is strong cultural prejudice against the sex trade in cambodia . “ with cambodian culture , it is currently impossible for sex work to be legal , ” she said . meanwhile , ngos are working to educate sex workers about safe sex and prevent police from exploiting them . “ now we just lobby the police to understand the situation . ” said ms . sichan . additional reporting by chea takihiro
__label__relevant secrets of the online call girl secrets of the online call girlgo online on facebook in cambodia and you tend to see people , especially women , selling various products , from fashion clothes to body lotion , on their pages . the improvement in the access to the internet , especially social media , and smartphone technology , has opened doors for users to advertise their products and services . that also applies to the oldest profession in the world : prostitution . taing rinith documents the lives of the sex workers who conduct their business online . they may use fake names here , but their stories are true . last week , on a facebook public group based in cambodia with more than 80 , 000 members , one female member posted a picture of herself . she was scantily dressed ; her face hidden behind a smiley emoticon . “ who wants to have a good time ? ” she wrote in khmer above the pictures . “ i need money now . inbox me now . for those in phnom penh only . ” unsurprisingly , her post instantly grabbed a stream of attention from many male members : their comments asking how much she charges . i gathered my courage and sent her a message , pretending to be interested in order to arrange an appointment with her . “ it will cost you $35 for an hour . if you want it , you can come to my apartment in toul kork , ” she replied , sending a google maps link to make it easy for me to reach her place . i did go to her place ; an apartment building located in a poorer part of the district . lily , as she wanted to be known , is a woman who appears to be in her mid - twenties . as i entered the room , she greeted me warmly before quickly asking me to take off my clothes . she said i needed to hurry because she had another “ client ” due . i confessed i was working for the press and my only wish was to interview her . although ‘lily ’ refused at first , she eventually agreed under two conditions : i must not ask about her past and i had to pay for her time . lily was previously based at wat phnom , in the heart of the kingdom ’ s capital , joining the many other women in the same profession who look for their clients there . she used to earn about $500 per month but had to pay a third of her income to her pimp , “ to protect me ” . “ at wat phnom , i was worried every day about police raids , ” she revealed . “ plus , it was very hard to get clients . ” when a friend introduced her to the idea of bringing the business online , lily ’ s earnings quickly increased . she was soon sometimes making as much as $2 , 000 per month . “ all i needed to do was to create a page and constantly update my pictures to look for clients . men are always looking for our services , ” she explained . lily added that most of her clients , ranging from high - school boys to retirees , are too shy to go to brothels or afraid that someone could recognise them . “ of course , i ’ m not proud of what i am doing , but it is a matter of supply and demand , ” lily admitted . “ i am a working girl . ” “ thida ” is another phnom penh - based sex worker who relies on facebook and bigo live , a popular social video streaming app , to make a living . despite making about $600 a month , the divorced mother finds it hard making end meets , having to support her elderly mother , too . “ these apps have helped me a lot , especially the filters to beautify your face and make your skin clearer , ” thida said . “ men are only interested in these physical features . ” “ not all men who inbox me want my service . some of them are lonely men who simply want to talk about sex because they cannot afford it , ” she added . “ there are also psychos who send me dick pictures and ask me to have sex with them for free . ” despite the money they make , both thida and lily , in common with most of their colleagues , face very real risks . dealing with complete strangers every day is unpredictable and potentially dangerous . “ once a man paid me $150 to spend a whole night with him at his apartment , ” lily recalls . “ when i got there , there were six men waiting for me . they would not let me go unless i had sex with them all . i had no choice , but i guess i was lucky that they all used condoms . recalling another incident , she said , “ one of my clients secretly filmed me with his smartphone while we were making love and shared the video with his friends . it eventually went public on a porn website . ” both of the women could not ask for help from the police because their work has been outlawed by the country . enacted in 2008 , the law on suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation punishes the managing of prostitutes and the maintaining of a brothel , as well as the act of exchanging sex for money . however , a 2016 unaids estimate disclosed that there are around 34 , 000 prostitutes in cambodia , many of whom are vietnamese . four years on , the figure may be substantially higher . ros sopheap , the executive director of gender and development of cambodia ( gdc ) , says the criminalisation of prostitution only further victimises the sex worker . “ i called for the legalisation of prostitution in cambodia because it is the only way to make it safe for the workers and protect them from all kinds of abuse , ” she says . “ the concept of providing sexual services has been seen as something against the social norms and values of khmer women , ” she adds . “ but it is the matter of supply and demand , which has not [yet] been accepted by the public and the government . ” good times 2 could not contact keo thea , phnom penh police chief of human trafficking , for comment . meanwhile , con artists have been exploiting the advanced technology and the increase in searches for online sexual services to their advantage . according to the victims , it ’ s common for the swindlers – pretending to be sex workers or their pimps –to ask the customer to send them the money first , through mobile banking apps and then to disappear without a trace . “ once , when i tackled one of these fraudsters , he threatened to send the screenshots of our facebook chat to my wife , after he had discovered my marital status on facebook , ” reveals a male victim , who asked to be anonymous . bearing all of this in mind , ros sopheap argues that a government body and proper legislation and regulation are needed to control prostitution in cambodia , after it is legalised . “ otherwise , both the workers and the clients shall suffer , ” she concludes . 
__label__relevant a look into the lives of the kingdom ’ s tech - savvy night angels a look into the lives of the kingdom ’ s tech - savvy night angelsa man looks at pictures posted by sex workers on facebook . with the advent of technology , sex workers are now moving online to expand their clientele . a man looks at pictures posted by sex workers on facebook . with the advent of technology , sex workers are now moving online to expand their clientele . kt / pann rachanafrom selling clothes to cosmetics , e - commerce has quickly become the go - to money - making venture in the kingdom . the improvement in internet access and innovations in smartphone technology has opened doors for cambodians to advertise their products and services on social media . unfortunately , the growth of online retail has welcomed some unexpected visitors , with the entry of the oldest profession in the world : prostitution . last week , in a facebook group with some 80 , 000 members , a female member posted a picture of herself , scantily dressed , with her face carefully hidden behind a smiley emoticon . “ who wants to have a good time ? ” she wrote in khmer . “ i need money . send me a private message now . for those in phnom penh only , ” she said , not bothering to hide the innuendo behind her invitation . unsurprisingly , her post turned the heads of many of the male members , as they wrote comments asking about her charges . with the intent of getting more details about the attention - grabbing business , i sent her a private message and set an appointment under the guise of interest . “ it will cost you $35 an hour . if you ’ re willing , you can come to my apartment in tuol kork [district] , ” she replied . her apartment building is located in the poorer part of the district . she greeted me with warmth as soon as she opened the door . not five minutes in , she asked me to take my clothes off . she said i needed to hurry because she had another client coming by . not wanting to bare my body to a stranger , i came clean and told her i was a journalist who came with the intent of interviewing her . she refused at first , as i expected , but eventually agreed under two conditions : first , questions about her past were off - limits and second , i had to pay for her time . knowing lilyshe wanted to be called lily . lily used to stand along the streets of wat phnom , waiting for a client to approach her and whisk her away to a nondescript motel . with her are other women also hoping to grab the attention of a moneyed man looking for immediate gratification . her profession earned her about $500 a month although a third of it went to her pimp , whom she said “ protects ” her . “ at wat phnom , i was constantly worried about police raids . it was also very difficult to get a client , ” she said . the anxiety from the risks of being exposed to a sudden arrest took a toll on lily . so , when a friend suggested she bring her business online , she didn ’ t hesitate to follow through . the move proved fruitful as she earned up to $2 , 000 a month – significantly higher than what she used to earn . “ all i had to do was create a page where i constantly posted my pictures for the clients to see , ” she said . “ men are always looking for our services . ” the men she serviced always came in different garbs . some of them were young and in high school uniforms , while others were ageing wearing hawaiian shirts . most of them were too shy to go to brothels , afraid someone would recognise them . “ of course , i am not proud of what i ’ m doing but this is a business , ” she said . “ i am a working girl . ” introducing thidathida is another phnom penh - based sex worker who relies on facebook and bigo live , a popular live video - streaming app , to make a living . a divorced mother of two who also supports her elderly mother , thida struggles to make ends meet despite earning about $600 a month . “ this apps help me a lot . they offer functions which enhance your appearance , like making your skin fairer , ” she said . “ men are only interested in physical features . ” “ not all men who message me want my service . some of them are lonely men who simply want to talk about sex because they cannot afford my fee . of course , there are also weird ones who send me pictures of their private parts and ask me to have sex with them for free , ” thida noted . the plight of sex workersdespite the money they make , both thida and lily , as well as most sex workers , recognise the risks their profession poses . having to deal with strangers every day , none of them knows what kind of client they could run into . “ once , a man paid me $150 to spend a whole night with him in his apartment , ” said one of them . “ when i got there , six men were waiting for me . they would not let me go unless i have sex with all of them . i had no choice . the only luck i had was they all used condoms . ” “ one of my clients filmed me on his phone while we were having sex then proceeded to share the video with his friends . it eventually went public on a porn website , ” recounted the other . despite the rape and abuse both had gone through , the two women know they cannot ask for police assistance without being at risk of being arrested as well , having a profession which is illicit in the country . despite being banned , prostitution in the kingdom remains prevalent . a 2016 un report disclosed around 34 , 000 prostitutes work in cambodia , many of whom are vietnamese . the law on suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation , which was enacted in 2008 , punishes everyone involved in prostitution , from the procurers and brothel owners to the sex workers themselves . ros sopheap , executive director of gender and development of cambodia , said the criminalisation of prostitution only further victimises the sex worker . “ i called for the legalisation of prostitution in cambodia because it is the only way to make it safe for the workers and protect them from all kinds of abuse , ” said ms sopheap . “ the provision of sexual services has been seen as something going against the social norms and values expected from khmer women . but [prostitution] is a trade business between two adults – a concept yet to be accepted by the public and the government , ” she said . meanwhile , con artists have taken advantage of online prostitution at the expense of unsuspecting men . according to the victims , some swindlers , pretending to be sex workers or pimps , trick the men into paying first through mobile banking apps before they could “ avail ” the service . they then run away with the money , leaving the victims penniless and unsatisfied . “ once , when i caught a swindler who did that , he threatened to send screenshots of our facebook conversations to my wife , whom he found through my account , ” said a male victim who asked to be anonymous . ms sopheap argued legalisation and regulation of prostitution are needed to control sex trade in cambodia . “ otherwise , both the worker and the client will suffer , ” she said . colonel keo thea , phnom penh anti - human trafficking department chief , could not be reached for comment . 
__label__relevant dozens of sex workers detained dozens of sex workers detainedcity hall yesterday said dozens of suspected sex workers were detained during an eight - day campaign to crack down on prostitution . the campaign , which began on july 7 and lasted until sunday , aimed to round up all suspected sex workers around wat phnom pagoda in daun penh district . city hall spokesman met meas pheakdey yesterday said a total of 49 suspected sex workers , including a dozen males , were sent to the social affairs department to be educated . “ the move was done in order to improve social order and curb the degradation of women , ” mr meas pheakdey said . ros sopheap , president of gender and development for cambodia , yesterday said law enforcement does not help women leave a life of prostitution , nor does it improve society . “ a sex worker is a victim ; arresting a victim does not help with anything , but leads to more consequences , ” ms sopheap said . “ they work to earn money and support their family . if they are arrested , their family will face difficulties . prostitution is also a job . ” she added that gadc previously sent a statement to the government over concerns of discrimination against sex workers . “ the government should implement proper solutions in order to guarantee human rights , ” ms sopheap said . “ it also has to develop a more effective protection system , as well as improve the job market , rather than enforcing laws . ” “ current police operations are unfair and do not provide equality to women , ” she added . ” 
__label__relevant inside phnom penh ' s massage parlours the street butterflies – inside phnom penh ’ s massage parloursin cambodia , prostitution is illegal but prevalent , which means sexual workers conduct their business in secret . they have been working behind the scenes , including under the cover of night clubs , ktvs , cafes and restaurants and even barber shops and beauty salons . but , how about those working day and night in the small massage parlours on the street for a small fee ? what does their life look like behind the veil ? taing rinith goes undercover to document the life of the “ day butterflies ” in phnom penh . during this mission , he hears the stories of poverty , struggle and violence – all for the sake of survival and their families . it was just after noon when i reached a decrepit , hole - in - wall house on street 430 . in front of it stands a dusty sign announcing “ coining , cupping and massage – 10 , 000 riel ” . four scantily dressed women were sitting on two long sofas in the house , putting on make - up and watching thai soap opera on their phones . i went in , and said i wanted a massage . one of the women , probably in her 30s or 40s , looked at me and asked me to choose one of them . i chose her . the woman got up and led me to a small room on the second floor . on the way , i can see the dusty floor and greyed - with - age wall . once a rat scampered past , and another time i dodged stepping on a cockroach . if one is to search for massage parlours in cambodia , the destinations are mostly clean and luxurious shops in the heart of phnom penh , such as those near the independence monument . yet , small parlours on the street , like the one i am in right now , are less likely to be on the net , although they are not really an unusual sight . in fact , there are seven - to - eight of such shops on street 430 alone . in the room on the second floor , there was no bed but instead a mattress on the floor and on it lies a pillow with a flower motif . ahya , as the woman wanted to be known , asked me to lie on the bed and started massaging my back but after a short while she paused to answer a phone call from her mother who lives in prey veng . ahya ’ s mother said her niece , whom she adopted , just had a traffic accident and she needed money for the medical bill . ahya said she did not have any right now , but added she would earn some from her “ client ” . then she asked me whether i want to do “ something else ” . “ i charge 5 dollars for using my hand and 10 dollars for using my mouth , ” she told me . “ everything will cost you 15 dollars , including the protection . ” instead , i came clean , told her i am a journalist who only wished to interview her , and she granted it with no curtains drawn . ahya , 33 , left prey veng for phnom penh five years ago to work in a garment factory after divorcing her “ lazy and drunkard ” husband , leaving her two children and one orphaned niece under the care of her mother . however , she could not support her family on her salary as a factory worker . then , some friends introduced her to her current job in a street massage parlour . “ four of us rent the house for our business , and jointly pay the rent of 500 dollars per month , ” she said . ahya says at first she only provided massage and coining services to male clients , which fetches only $300 - $400 per month . before long , her friends wised her up to earning twice as much and in some good months even more than that by providing “ what men want ” . “ of course , as a khmer woman , i don ’ t enjoy what i am doing , but i need money to feed my family , ” said ahya who was close to tears . “ it is the only way for me to keep my children in school . i have to do this job because i did not have the chance to study when i was young . ” ahya says most of her clients are workers or tuk tuk drivers , who usually come on their lunch break , but sometimes she receives teenage boys who “ want to taste the first sexual experience ” . on a good day , she could lap up to five clients , but she says earnings are less than the young , gorgeous women working in the nightlife area . “ i am not young or beautiful like them , and i know i will no longer make money when i got older , ” ahya says . “ i am saving money now so that i can open a business later . ” lida ( another moniker ) , another street masseuse at a nameless shop in takhmao , says she also provides sexual favours , to mostly truck or taxi drivers who go past her shop , but only when she needed extra money . she keeps her deviations secret from her husband , a construction worker . “ people can criticise us , calling what we are doing a deviation in society , something that a khmer woman should not do , ” lida says . “ go on , they can call us what they want . but , those people do not feed me and my family . ” “ once , the wife of a client caught him coming to me . she hit me on the face and called me a ‘slut ’ . back home , my husband asked what happened to me , and i told him i had a traffic accident . ” of course , not all street masseuses provide sexual acts . there are those who only give coining , cupping and perhaps some basic massage . one of them , kouch theary , 29 , says she has never crossed the line , not once . however , some of her clients have treated her as a “ prostitute ” . “ some clients ask me to sleep with them , but i always says ‘no ’ , ” theary confides . “ some even molested me . but , i always tell them i only help relieve their body aches , and nothing more . ” a risky or even dangerous jobboth ahya and lida said there are many occasions where uncouth clients do not pay their bills . although it is a monetary loss , they cannot seek help from police because their way of making a living is not right in the eyes of the country ’ s laws . “ if we go to the police , we could be arrested , ” ahya says . “ we don ’ t have money to give them in exchange for our release . ” “ once i was even blackmailed by a man who claimed he was a police officer , ” lida says . “ he forced me to have sex with him for free , or he would come back with the force to close down my shop . i was not sure he was really an officer , what choice did i have ? ” police raids on the occasional massage parlours are not unusual in cambodia , especially in urban hubs such as phnom penh , siem reap and sihanoukville . in fact , reports in the local media are quite frequent . when a shop gets raided , everyone would be arrested , and condoms are usually seized as “ evidence ” . anyway , such businesses still exist everywhere . apart from non - paying clients and police raids , the street masseur , no matter that they are involved in sexual acts or not , have to face sexual abuse and violence every day . in february last year , sanchez shawn daniel , an american tourist , was arrested for killing a 27 - year - old masseuse in kampot after she refused to have sex with him . two months later , another masseuse who work from her rented house in chak angre leu was killed by her jealous boyfriend . “ all these ladies were working behind closed doors , and no one can know what happens behind these doors , ” says ros sopheap , the executive director of gender and development of cambodia ( gdc ) . all the risks , sopheap explains , is a result of the criminalisation of prostitution , although it has been called “ the oldest profession in the world ” and the kingdom has not been spared , for centuries . “ the concept of providing sexual services has been seen as something against the social norms and values of khmer women , ” she adds . “ but , it is the matter of demand and supply , which is has not been accepted by the public and the government . ” a unaids estimate in 2016 disclosed that there are around 34 , 000 prostitutes in cambodia , many of whom are vietnamese . the law on suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation , which was enacted in 2008 , punishes the managing of prostitutes and the maintaining of a brothel , as well as a mere act of exchanging sex for money . meanwhile , the women ’ s network for unity , established in 2000 , has been lobbying for the amendment of the 2008 law for legal and human rights and better working conditions for sex workers . “ the law ( on suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation ) does not only affect the sexual workers ’ businesses but also their well - being , mainly by taking away their chance to learn how to defend themselves against stds and bad clients , ” sophea added . in the meantime , one of the street masseuses i spoke to revealed she got hepatitis b from one of his client . “ wherever they work , in a massage parlour , at a ktv or in an open brothel , these workers need better rights for a better life , ” sopheap says . “ to achieve this , everyone has to change their attitude about treating them as deviants and work together to assist them . ” 
__label__relevant sex worker ’ s death still unpunished a woman at a memorial service holds flowers and a photo of pen kunthea , a phnom penh sex worker who drowned while attempting to flee from district security guards . martin de bourmontsex worker ’ s death still unpunisheda year after sex worker pen kunthea drowned in a tragic case implicating phnom penh ’ s most notorious security guards , no one has been held accountable for her death , despite numerous calls by women ’ s rights activists and former opposition lawmakers for an independent investigation . the 33 - year - old drowned on january 1 last year while being chased by daun penh district security guards near wat phnom . jumping from one tourist boat to the next , she reportedly slipped and fell into the water , with her body only found two days later . the daun penh security guards allegedly did not help the drowning woman . despite six opposition lawmakers calling for an independent investigation into the case , no commission has been set up . one of the lawmakers was mu socha , the self - exiled deputy president of the now - dissolved cambodia national rescue party , who said yesterday that she “ never heard anything ” in reaction to their letter demanding justice for kunthea . chan sophoan , of the women ’ s network for unity , said she was not hopeful that investigations would bring results . “ i don ’ t think that they will find justice and a response to our demand [to solve the case] , ” she said . sophoan said after women ’ s rights activists had pushed for an investigation into the case for months , the court had asked kunthea ’ s sister , pen meng ky , to appear in court as a witness . “ she said she ’ s scared and worried because she got compensation by the municipality , ” she said . “ but it ’ s a criminal case , so she needs to be a witness . ” meng ky , who now takes care of the victim ’ s son , could not be reached yesterday . sophoan added that they would meet municipal officials on friday to check for updates , but had recently been told that the court still needed “ more time ” for the investigation as they had only “ started a few months ago ” . thida khus , executive director of women ’ s rights ngo silaka , said despite violence against women being common , rarely were people held accountable . “ i think the impunity is . . . across the board , ” she said . “ the vulnerability of women – especially for women sex workers who face discrimination and violence and threats – is [huge] . . . [but] not many people pay attention to their plight because of the discrimination they face . ” it was of utmost importance , she said , that perpetrators were held accountable to prevent deaths and violence in the future . daun penh district police chief huot chan yaran said the case had already been sent to the court and directed further questions to district governor sok penh vuth , who could not be reached . phnom penh municipal court spokesman y rin and deputy administration chief sous vichyea randy could also not be reached . additional reporting by kong meta
__label__relevant making it through the night a strong kick in the midsection sent the petite girl flying backwards as she held on tight to the knife that was meant to protect her . she lifted herself off the ground and yelled at the man who had groped her without paying as she brandished the short blade in self - defense . her colleague , 35 - year - old sokna , who only gave her first name , watched from a stone bench four meters away on street 106 and tried to assess the danger . fortunately , this time the customer left after shouting a few unkind curses in the girl ’ s direction . “ no one protects you here , ” ms . sokna said on a recent night at work , wearing neither makeup nor jewelry . seventeen years as a sex worker have taught this full - figured woman dressed in red pajamas a lot about the different types of customers she might encounter . it has also taught her when it might be necessary to pull out a weapon in self - defense , and when best to keep quiet while being gang raped . “ the last time it happened , a man came to pick me up in a car . he drove me near a bridge , where six other men were waiting in a field . they had knifes , and they cut me while they raped me , ” she said , showing a long slash on her calf , which was still healing . “ there ’ s nothing i could do , they threatened to kill me if i screamed . ” according to ms . sokna , the roughly 200 women working in and around the wat phnom area in phnom penh often experience beatings , intimidations , abuse and gang rape . the men who tend to pick up the women for an hour in a guesthouse don ’ t have enough money to spend inside brothels or massage parlors where the girls are , to an extent , protected by the owners and services cost at least four times as much as on the street . the men who come here , ms . sokna said , are often drunk or on drugs , and many of them are violent . ms . sokna is fully aware of the potential dangers of the streets , and has come to accept them . she has been dragged into forests and threatened with guns , situations that she says have made her think she would never see her children again . but more importantly , she has learned to stick to certain rules to protect herself from getting into a danger—at least if money isn ’ t tight . for example , going to a guesthouse you are familiar with , where the owners are your friends and will come running if you scream for help , and taking a separate ride from your client are guidelines that make your life as a streetwalker much safer , ms . sokna said . but when ends don ’ t meet , she accepts to work under conditions and rules set up by customers . “ if i already made enough money to pay for food and for the $2 rent for the next day , then i tell them that i will only go to the guesthouse i know . then , i can choose . but sometimes i am so desperate for a customer that i have to take the risk , ” she said . on average , sex workers earn about $10 for an hour and can have as many as four clients per night . it ’ s around 9 : 30 p . m . when ms . sokna takes a seat on a bench on street 106 . she shrieks briefly as police drive up , but they don ’ t stop . “ perhaps it ’ s too early , ” she said , adding that coming to work early brought another advantage . “ there ’ s less competition , ” ms . sokna said . “ later at night , if i ask for extra money to pay for my own ride to the guesthouse , the men will just walk over to the next girl , ” she said . at another spot for streetwalkers in phnom penh , close to olympic stadium , two sisters in short pants and flip flops are talking to three young men on a motorbike . the men ask chia sreymum , 24 , to turn around and show off her body . her sister , chia sreyni , gives her instructions , and tells her to smile . although sreyni is two years younger , it is she who introduced her sister to the street . ms . sreymum ’ s husband passed away a few months ago , leaving her with a 6 - year - old son and a 4 - year - old daughter , while ms . sreyni ’ s husband is in prey sar prison . all their relatives have passed away , they said , except for their grandmother , who tucks in their children when they are at work . they have never learned a trade and are both illiterate , leaving them limited options for work . walking the streets , ms . sreymum said , held the best prospects of making enough money to send her children to school . “ when my husband died , i spoke to my grandmother about the future , and how i could take up this work to earn enough for us to live on . after some discussion , we agreed that there was no other way for me to make money , so she let me go , ” ms . sreymum said . one of the worst things about her job , besides abusive customers , are the frequent beatings by police . prostitution is illegal , and police officers come every night to chase them down the street . “ that ’ s why i don ’ t wear heels anymore . with flip flops , i can run faster and escape , ” she said . and her feisty sister looks out for the two of them . ms . sreyni handles the business and tells the young men on their motorbikes that an hour costs $20 , that they can choose one of the two guesthouses the women have trust in , and that their own designated tuk tuk driver , whom they hire every night , will take them there separately . there ’ s no haggling , and the rules aren ’ t up for discussion . it ’ s basic and simple and not hard to stick to , ms . sreyni said : wear comfortable shoes . go to guesthouses you know . always tell your friends where you are going . get your own ride . and if you have to scream for help—do it as loud as you can . these rules have done a great deal in protecting them , especially from gang rape , ms . sreyni said . “ it never happened to me , nor to my sister . we hear about it from other people , but i think it won ’ t happen to us ” as long as we can afford to stick to the rules , she said . © 2013 , all rights reserved . 
__label__relevant crackdown on massage parlor crackdown on massage parlorfourteen people were arrested on tuesday in phnom penh ’ s daun penh district for allegedly offering sex services at a massage parlor . according to the national police , a police task force from the anti - human trafficking and juvenile protection department with cooperation from prosecutor ly sophana of the phnom penh municipal court raided the business in a crackdown on massage parlors offering sex services . during the raid , 44 - year - old chan thea along with 10 women claiming to be masseuses , one woman who said she was a hairdresser and two customers were arrested and taken to police headquarters for questioning . 
__label__no_relevant migrant sex workers fear for the future migrant sex workers fear for the future “ bua ” used to earn up to 40 , 000 baht a month as a sex worker in the northern province of chiang mai when the coronavirus forced entertainment venues to close , leaving her jobless . since march , the 32 - year - old single mother , who is burmese , has racked up debts of more than 15 , 000 baht to pay for her daughter ' s education and rent . ms bua survived on handouts from the sex worker group empower foundation , which ranged from rice to tampons , since government handouts required her to show a thai identification card . " if it wasn ' t for empower , i would have committed suicide , " said ms bua , who asked in a phone interview not to use her real name and requested anonymity so family members did not find out about her work . while thailand has announced plans for bars , pubs and karaoke venues to re - open from wednesday this week after being closed for four months , sex workers fear there will be few clients as many are foreigners and the borders remain closed . a 2014 unaids report estimated there were 123 , 530 sex workers in thailand but advocacy groups put the figure at more than twice that number , including tens of thousands of migrants from neighbouring myanmar , laos , cambodia and vietnam . many young women are now among the 2 million thais the state planning agency believes may be made unemployed this year because of the impact of the virus . in thailand , prostitution is illegal and punishable by a fine of 1 , 000 baht , and customers who pay for sex with underage workers can be jailed for up to six years . but over the years , the country has come to be known for sex tourism , with large numbers frequenting bars , massage parlours and karaoke lounges that have multiplied as tourist numbers soared as the law is not enforced . the coronavirus crisis has forced many sex workers to turn to new types of work , from selling goods to becoming waitresses . but for migrant workers , there are fewer options . left outactivists say migrant or stateless sex workers are among the hardest hit by the economic impact of the coronavirus . when ms bua applied for a job at a grocery store , she was told they preferred to hire thai staff despite her perfect thai . " we have been abandoned . we have been made invisible , even though we face more hardship than others and were the first ( to be unemployed after the coronavirus ) , " said mai junta , a representative from empower foundation in chiang mai . thailand has introduced a raft of measures to help workers affected by the coronavirus , including financial aid for informal thai workers and for thai and foreign workers registered under the social security system . but a survey by empower in april found only 5% of sex workers are part of the social security system , and 35% have no access to government aid . the rest could access cash relief . " the government should help all nationalities , since at the end of the day we are all human beings who have suffered ( from the outbreak ) . the government shouldn ' t discriminate , " ms mai told the thomson reuters foundation . the department of women ' s affairs and family development didn ' t immediately respond to a request for comment . the service workers in group ( swing ) , a support organisation for sex workers , conducted a survey in may that found some sex workers in bangkok were refused financial aid after they indicated they were sex workers . " but some got the 5 , 000 baht ( aid ) because they lied ( about their occupation ) . there ' s no place for sex workers in this government ' s policy , " swing president chalidaporn songsamphan told a livestream discussion hosted by the foreign correspondents ' club of thailand in may . " the thai state has had this ambivalence towards sex work and sex workers . this is a factor that explains why so many of them can ' t access any assistance from the state . " despite entertainment venues re - opening , 50 - year - old mint - not her real name - doubts business will be back to normal with the country ' s borders still closed , crippling tourism in bangkok which was the world ' s most visited city for four years . after losing her job in chiang mai , the burmese sex worker moved in with a friend to split the rent , selling her jewellery to pay for the housing . she applied for a job as a masseuse but was rejected by several places even though she was trained , because thai law prohibits foreigners from working in certain jobs . when she applied as a chef at a restaurant , she was told she was too old . " i ' m so stressed out . . . with no money left and i can ' t go back home , " said ms mint , who requested anonymity in a phone interview because of the shame associated with prostitution . " i guess i ' ll just have to grin and bear it . i don ' t know what else to do . " 
__label__no_relevant cambodia arrests eight for ' sos obama ' stunt cambodia arrests eight for ' sos obama ' stuntcambodian police arrested eight people thursday for displaying portraits of us president barack obama next to the word " sos " on their roofs ahead of his much - anticipated visit to the nation . a cambodian girl paints a word ( sos ) under a portrait of us president barack obama on the roof next to the phnom penh international airport on november 14 . cambodian police arrested eight people thursday for displaying portraits of us president barack obama next to the word " sos " on their roofs ahead of his much - anticipated visit to the nation . the stunt was carried out by residents living near phnom penh airport in protest at their threatened eviction , a local human rights group said , in the latest of a slew of bitter land disputes across the impoverished country . the charges against the six women and two men were not immediately clear . " they put obama ' s picture on their roofs and painted ' sos ' next to it , " said national police spokesman kirt chantharith , adding " we are questioning them about their reason for doing this " . obama will become the first sitting us president to visit cambodia when he flies into the capital next week to attend the annual east asia summit with regional leaders . the detentions are the latest example of officials trying to suppress criticism or polish cambodia ' s image ahead of the high - profile event , said ou virak , president of the cambodian centre for human rights . " it says quite a bit about this government and its intention to put on a good face in front of the international community , " he told afp . over 180 families living near the airport have been served with eviction notices to make way for its planned expansion and are demanding fair compensation . forced evictions across the country have displaced thousands of families and prompted a number of protests and violent clashes between residents and armed security forces . in preparation for the summit , city officials have rounded up nearly 100 beggars , drug addicts , sex workers and street vendors to make the capital " beautiful " and " for public order " , municipal hall spokesman long dimanche said . many were sent to social affairs centres - - effective detention centres much criticised by rights campaigners in the past - - while some street children were taken to local charities , he added . 
__label__no_relevant american brian naswall gets 10 years for buying child sex in cambodia an american aviation executive has been sentenced to a decade in jail in cambodia for sexually abusing girls as young as five . brian naswall , the founder and ceo of aero cambodia , was arrested last year , reportedly in the act of abusing three underage girls , and was accused by nine victims between the ages of five and 16 . naswall , 53 , denied the charges during his trial in phnom penh ' s municipal court and claimed the case was fabricated , but was today found guilty of engaging in child prostitution . brian naswall , founder of aerocambodia , arrives at the municipal court in phnom penh , cambodianaswall ( bottom right ) , walks from a prison van before he was sentenced in phnom penh ' s municipal courtnaswall , pictured in a facebook photo , described himself online as a ' part - time pilot and world traveler ' action pour les enfants ( aple ) , a non - governmental organization that hunts down suspected foreign pedophiles in cambodia , said naswall was arrested by tonle basac police in may 2015 . at the time , the organization claimed , he was engaging in sex with a 12 - year - old girl in the presence of two other underage girls . aple claimed naswall lured the girls to a quiet place surrounding koh pich island and sexually abused them with the promise to pay them up to $20 each . after he was arrested , cambodia ' s anti - human trafficking and juvenile protection department took over the investigation . aple said it helped police to identify more victims . ' six other victims had disclosed that they had been sexually exploited on different occasions , ' the organization said in a statement released after the sentencing . ' finally , police had concluded a total of nine victims . ' naswall , 53 , was sentenced to 10 years in prison and ordered to pay $12 , 000 in compensation to his victimsaple claimed naswall was caught in the act of abusing three underage girls when he was arrestednaswall , whose airline offered sightseeing tours of cambodia , poses in front of a small aircraftin its ruling , phnom penh ' s municipal court sentenced naswall - who was wearing an orange prison jumpsuit and looked slimmer compared to photos on his facebook profile - to 10 years in jail . as he was led into court by police officers he gave a thumb ' s up to photographers . naswall , whose company offers joyrides or sightseeing tours in small aircraft for as little as $50 per person , must also pay 48 million cambodian riel ( approximately $12 , 000 ) in compensation , which will be split among eight of his victims . a member of his legal team said he would appeal the ruling . vando khoem , the program director of aple , called for naswall to be deported after he serves his sentence . ' i applaud the decision of the court . however , i express my heartfelt disappointment that the court didn ’ t order his deportation , ' khoem said . ' without deportation , he would exploit an opportunity to be here to prey on cambodian children . deportation should be made automatically . ' on his linkedin profile , naswall described himself as a pilot and world traveler . he claimed to have previously worked as a locomotive engineer who operated trains in oregon , washington , montana , california and idaho in the us , british columbia in canada , thailand , cambodia and mexico . naswall ' s sentence is the latest effort by officials in the impoverished nation in southeast asia to punish pedophiles who travel from abroad and prey on children . cambodia ' s grim reputation as a child sex hub attracted global attention in 2002 when british glam rocker and serial pedophile gary glitter was deported over suspected sexual offences . the country launched a drive in 2003 to shed its reputation as a haven for foreign pedophiles . dozens of foreigners have since been prosecuted for child sex crimes but there are still wide gaps in policing . 
__label__no_relevant china ’ s xi jinping visits king , hun sen xi jinping , president of china and the communist party , and prime minister hun sen shake hands yesterday at the peace palace in phnom penh . hong meneachina ’ s xi jinping visits king , hun senthrongs of cheering school children greeted chinese president xi jinping upon his arrival in the capital yesterday , with balaclava - clad soldiers enforcing order and whole sections of the city shut down as he paid visits to the king and the prime minister . on his first trip since becoming china ’ s top leader in march 2013 – he visited as vice president in 2009 – xi also oversaw the signing of 31 agreements , including $238 million in soft loans , $89 million in debt forgiveness and $15 million in military aid . arriving at phnom penh international airport at about midday , xi checked in at the intercontinental hotel on mao tse tung boulevard before meeting with king norodom sihamoni and queen mother norodom monineath at the royal palace . police , military police and the elite prime minister ’ s bodyguard unit – who clutched bagged rifles – lined the street corners , while stretches of major arterial roads such as norodom boulevard were closed for hours at a time as xi moved . at about 5 : 30pm , the president , who has become one of prime minister hun sen ’ s most important allies amid increasing concerns from the west about political repression , arrived at the premier ’ s office building on russian boulevard to meet him . chinese deals help , but cambodia needs to do more : expertsthe pair held discussions behind closed doors until 8pm , before departing to dine at the palace . eang sophalleth , a spokesman for the prime minister , told reporters that relations between cambodia and china had been growing ever stronger . “ president xi jinping said that eating cambodian rice is very tasty , and encouraged exports of cambodian rice to china , ” he said . “ this is a historical visit , and the two parties discussed boosting cooperation as the closest of friends and comprehensive strategic partners . ” the chinese president also agreed to increase the quota of cambodian rice allowed into china from 100 , 000 tonnes a year to 200 , 000 , sophalleth added . observers have warned that cambodia has over the past years risked becoming a client state of china , with the government having repeatedly pleased the chinese by blocking asean from issuing stern statements on beijing ’ s aggressive south china sea claims . hun sen and other officials have repeatedly denied that such efforts have been influenced by infusions of cash from china , even as the world power in late july pledged some $600 million in aid to the government only a few days after another asean statement was nixed . school students hold portraits of king norodom sihamoni and xi jinping , president of china and the communist party , yesterday at the phnom penh international airport . heng chivoanyesterday ’ s meeting was also not short of attractive support from china , with xi and hun sen overseeing the signing of a long list of deals that included the wiping out of debt worth 600 million yuan , or about $89 . 1 million , according to sophalleth . he also said china had pledged military aid of 100 million yuan . a document listing the agreements said finance minister aun porn moniroth and chinese commerce minister gao hucheng had signed off on a loan for 1 . 2 billion yuan that it classified as “ unconditional financing ” . among the 30 other agreements it noted was another loan for 400 million yuan , and a deal to cooperate to stop human trafficking , with complaints common of cambodian women being sold as brides in china and later mistreated . the document also said interior ministry secretary of state em sam an and chinese foreign minister wang yi had signed a deal for information sharing on internal security issues , and that royal group ceo kith meng had signed an agreement with sinosteel for a 450 mv coal power plant in sihanoukville . homeless , sex workers swept away for xi visitxi ’ s visit comes after years of increasingly close relations with the cpp that have contrasted sharply with its relationship with hun sen in the 1980s , when china funded the khmer rouge and other resistance forces fighting to oust the premier ’ s regime . the cpp ’ s new relationship with china has led to some concerns that pressures on it to allow free elections in 2017 and 2018 could be defused , with hun sen often contrasting china ’ s approach to aid with stern warnings about rights from western nations . yet the cambodia national rescue party , for its part , released a statement signed jointly by opposition leaders sam rainsy and kem sokha welcoming the arrival of xi , and reminding him of china ’ s support for the 1980s resistance to hun sen regime , where both have their roots . “ in the name of the leaders and members of the cnrp , and ourselves as the president and vice president of the cnrp , we wish to express congratulations and a warm welcome with the highest honours for the visit to cambodia by the chinese president , ” it said . “ we as the leaders of the cnrp , a party that has . . . its origin in the funcinpec movement ( led by the late king father norodom sihanouk ) and the kpnlf ( led by samdech son sann ) cannot forget the deep assistance of every type from our chinese friends to the recent struggle to liberate the country from foreign invaders . ” it also thanked china for helping to promote the october 1991 paris peace agreement , which ended cambodia ’ s civil war and led hun sen ’ s vietnamese - backed government to allow a return to democracy through the un - organised 1993 elections . 
__label__relevant phnom penh sex workers stuck between prey speu and the street phnom penh sex workers stuck between prey speu and the streeteight years after cambodia passed a strict – and contentious – anti - trafficking law , street sex workers continue to suffer detainment and alleged abuse at the hands of clients and police . things need to change , say researchers , human rights defenders and the women themselves . three months ago , leakhena * , a sex worker , was walking alone on a dark street near wat phnom when she was stopped and pushed into a daun penh district police van . it was late . she wasn ’ t “ looking for customers ” , she says . and she certainly wasn ’ t talking to anyone . there were five other women inside the van , which was driven directly to the police station . later , the group was taken to prey speu – the notorious detention centre on the outskirts of phnom penh designated for “ re - educating ” the homeless , the mentally ill and those who sell sex . “ in [prey speu] , they treated us as if we were prisoners who had committed a serious crime , ” leakhena says . “ we lived in a room with 50 people . at meal times , the guards unlocked the door , but they walked between us with batons . we couldn ’ t take a bath . ” she stayed only one week . then , like convicts , she and six other detainees broke a window and climbed out , escaping before dawn . leakhena returned to the street almost immediately – she couldn ’ t afford not to . now 30 years old , she turned to sex work four years ago after she divorced her husband . she has two young sons and needs to support them . “ we get $5 per customer , ” she says . “ if i worked as a cleaner in a restaurant , i could not make $5in a day . ” but she abandons her work if she gets a glimpse of the cops . “ every time i see the police – plainclothes or in uniform – i walk back home , ” she says . “ i will never let the police catch me again . ” no stranger to the lawleakhena ’ s arrest is common enough . wat phnom , well - known as a place men go to pay for sex , is a frequent – and sometimes the only – stop on police “ roundups ” that often end in detention . in the latest street sweep earlier this month , 15 sex workers were picked up in the area . of the five female sex workers interviewed this week by post weekend , all had been detained and none was informed of their accused crime . both the director of the city ’ s department of social affairs , which runs prey speu , and the centre ’ s chief declined to comment on the current number of sex workers or others currently detained there . public solicitation of sex is illegal in cambodia , as is profiting from prostitution , recruiting someone into the trade , acting as an intermediary or interfering with “ prevention ” ( all defined as “ procurement ” ) . the act of buying sex is not . in cambodia , it is most often sex workers – not their clients – who have suffered at the hands of the authorities . a sex worker speaks to two potential clients near wat phnom . athena zelandoniiunder the khmer rouge , prostitution was punishable by death . and during the vietnamese - backed people ’ s republic of kampuchea , sex workers were arrested and sent to a former khmer rouge prison on kandal province ’ s koh kor island – which remained , like prey speu , a detention centre for “ undesirables ” until 2008 . the current solicitation law is just one part of the law on the suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation , backed by unicef , and enacted in 2008 . it was intended to stem cambodia ’ s trafficking problem . the law led to a crackdown on once - booming brothels and red - light districts , but it also drew a swift backlash . its enforcement varied wildly , and could conflate trafficking with sex work , critics said at the time . raids and arrests drove sex work underground , threatening women ’ s health and safety . allegations of police abuse skyrocketed . the criticism has continued . “ the 2008 anti - trafficking law has been a human rights disaster for sex workers who walk the streets , ” says phil robertson , deputy asia director for human rights watch . “ the police have taken a badly written law with a broad definition of ‘soliciting ’ and turned it to their advantage . ” the first step , he argues , is to repeal the solicitation provision . but by the books , solicitation is illegal both by the human - trafficking law and the revised criminal code , which was passed one year later . the punishments differ : 3 , 000 to 10 , 000 riel ( about $0 . 75 - $2 . 50 ) and one to six days imprisonment in the former ; or 5 , 000 to 50 , 000 riel ( about $1 . 25 - $12 . 50 ) under the criminal code . in cambodia , laws occasionally overlap , and have rarely been repealed following the introduction of the criminal code , according to phnom penh - based legal analyst and human rights consultant billy tai . “ [in cases of overlap] , there ’ s no certainty within the law and no clear language , so we really just don ’ t know , ” he says . “ it leaves room for doubt . ” that ’ s not to mention pre - existing penal codes , from which provisions are still used . one rarely invoked law , which forbids adultery , has been brought up by politicians – but not by the courts – in the ongoing prostitution case involving acting cnrp president kem sokha , a case that is widely seen as politically motivated . arbitrary enforcementon the street , the law seems arbitrary . there are bribes , not fines , and some women walk a thin line between existence and “ solicitation ” . “ [sex workers] don ’ t even know what the laws governing their actions are , so the police can tell them whatever they want , ” says tai . “ i don ’ t even know if the government officials are up to date on their law , to be honest . ” in practice , police often solicit money from sex workers . among those interviewed by post weekend , the asking price had varied from $20 to $200 – not a few thousand riel . ( some of the women had paid . ) working the streets : increased dangers from customers and police . athena zelandoniiand then there is a decision to make : “ if there ’ s no money to give to the police , they will send us to the centre , ” says somaly * , a 36 - year - old sex worker . while bars , massage parlours or barbershops often operate as fronts for the sex industry – and usually cater to foreigners in addition to cambodians – they don ’ t receive the same treatment from the police . one barbershop brothel shuttered by anti - trafficking police this month had operated without a hitch for nearly a decade . local police had previously asked neighbours not to report the business , the cambodia daily reported at the time . street workers , then , become the target . there are few figures on the number of sex workers in phnom penh , much less a record of how many work on the street . a ministry of health estimate cited in 2010 by human rights watch put the city ’ s total at about 6 , 000 sex workers ; a more informal 2013 estimate reckoned the number of street sex workers was fewer than 1 , 000 . for an informal sense of scale , keo tha , a program officer at women ’ s network for unity ( wnu ) , one of phnom penh ’ s primary sex - worker unions , says her organisation has counted between 500 and 600 women working on the street while distributing condoms . since 2015 , wnu has been involved in the cases of 112 women detained at prey speu . but kasumi nakagawa , a gender - studies researcher who has spent nearly 20 years in phnom penh , conducted a small - scale survey on street sex workers in march , interviewing 31 women . she was struck by their silence – in arrest and in detainment . “ police may not explain anything , they just bring them into the minivan , ” nakagawa says . “ women are silenced due to the authority the police have . . . they understand it ’ s just not worth asking [about] matters under detention . ” it ’ s a phenomenon reflected by the women interviewed this week . “ the police put a gun to my stomach and refused to give us food while we were at the daun penh police station , ” says 34 - year - old channa . “ the police wore casual clothes when they arrested us , ” says somaly . “ they put 14 women on the same bus . ” often , she adds , they rely on motodops in the area to keep watch . transgender women may be targeted based simply on their appearance ; one interviewed by the post at prey speu in june said she had never worked as a sex worker but was arrested while simply walking near wat phnom . and there are other risks : 10 of the 31 women nakagawa interviewed had experienced a gang rape . billy tai says for sex workers , going to the police about rape can result in re - traumatisation , even physically . “ it ’ s not what ’ s in the law , or isn ’ t in the law , ” he says . “ it ’ s just very clear that nothing will happen . ” nearly three - quarters of the women nakagawa interviewed had been arrested , often arbitrarily . “ i met with one woman who was arrested in front of her house , along the railroad , who was eating breakfast , ” she says of the interviewee who suddenly found herself in prey speu . could the ‘swedish model ’ work ? erin handley in a recent report based on a survey of cambodian sex workers , researcher kasumi nakagawa floats the idea of making the purchase of sex – rather than the selling of it – illegal . “ unless clients stop buying sex workers ’ services . . . demands will never be ceased and suppliers for those needs must be punished in an unfair way , ” she writes . it ’ s an idea similar to the so - called “ swedish ” or “ nordic ” model , which attempts to penalise the customer in a bid to cut the demand for commercial sex without punishing women who might be victims of trafficking . but it ’ s a contentious concept . for keo tha , of wnu , fining customers would be detrimental to those who willingly enter sex work , and those who desperately need the money . “ the men will not dare to look for those women because they are afraid of the punishment , ” she says . “ our women could be starved ; they could not earn a living and they would have nothing to do . ” legal analyst billy tai is sympathetic to the idea , saying if the government wanted to ban the sex trade , it should dampen demand , not punish prostitutes . “ if you are going to punish somebody , it should be on the demand side , ” he says . “ they are more culpable . ” he adds that the law in its current state is hypocritical – though its aim is to reduce human trafficking , it expressly punishes the victims of trafficking as well those who willingly work in the sex trade . phil robertson , of human rights watch , agrees that the anti - trafficking law is used to abuse sex workers , but also warns against the swedish model . “ [the model] has pushed the sex trade further into the shadows , made it more dangerous for both sex workers and their customers alike , ” he says . “ criminalising sex between consenting adults is a clear rights violation and an invasion of privacy , and should not be adopted by cambodia . ” police tend to focus on sex workers on the street , not those in bars . athena zelandoniiindefinite detainmentthe problems inside prey speu have been well - documented . keo tha , of wnu , says the average stay for a sex worker at prey speu is about two to three months . for cases of women who are hiv - positive or pregnant , the organisation can submit a letter to the department of social affairs for early release , which takes six weeks to process . and for a response ? “ just 20 days , ” tha says . although little research has been done into condom usage among sex workers in the wake of the 2008 law , critics long feared it would lead to a decrease in use and a rise in sexually transmitted diseases . among sex workers with more than seven clients a week , the hiv rate is 14 per cent , according to 2011 data cited by the unaids cambodia office in the most recent survey focused specifically on sex workers . daily medication is not available inside prey speu , so even those who are able to get out “ early ” may miss dozens of doses , risking resistance to the virus . somaly says she remembers five hiv - positive women in the room with her when she stayed for just a week in 2012 . they weren ’ t allowed access to medication until they became visibly ill , she says . many women who are detained are mothers – including two interviewed this week – or are married with families . according to nakagawa , even the fear of detention shapes parenting . “ they cannot share their sufferings with them , ” she says . “ but they are working for the survival of their children . ” reform plans for prey speu were announced in november , as was a proposed moratorium on street sweeps and a switch to a voluntary admissions system – but little has changed as of yet . mentally ill detainees are being moved to a new centre off - site , says ministry of social affairs spokesperson touch channy . “ now [the doctors] are on standby every day , ” he says . “ unicef cambodia said there is actual reform . ” in the meantime , the centre ’ s continued operations have been widely condemned by civil society organisations on the ground . “ it ’ s the lynchpin of this abusive system , because being sent there is punishment that sex workers and other street people fear , and will pay bribes . . . to avoid , ” says robertson , of human rights watch . “ closing it is not enough – it should be bulldozed . ” at the very least , prey speu ’ s foundations are shaky . of the women post weekend spoke to , two had escaped – both within the past three months . not to mention its inefficiencies . “ women are arrested many times , and i can imagine that the police are tired of arresting the same women again and again , ” nakagawa says with a tinge of irony . billy tai says the problems may run deeper : a corrupt police system , as well as inescapable conservatism when it comes to gender , means sex workers are disproportionately victimised . anti - trafficking ngos often carry out raids themselves or push the police to enforce the anti - trafficking law , he explains . “ it ’ s problematic that police are used to having the work done for them , ” tai says . “ unless you bribe them , it ’ s not likely they ’ ll do something , especially if they ’ re also in on the trade . and there is a gendered morality here : this idea that men can ’ t control their actions , but the law inherently punishes the woman for enticing the man to do what they ’ re told not to . it ’ s just so entrenched . ” as for leakhena , her concerns are with her two sons , now 10 and 16 , who are aware of her profession . “ the [elder] understands that without them i would not do this work… but he told me he wants to change schools because his friends gossip , ” she says softly . “ it is hard for us . ” * names have been changed to protect identities . additional reporting by erin handley . 
__label__relevant call to decriminalize sex work likely to fall on deaf ears call to decriminalize sex work likely to fall on deaf earssex workers remain among the most vulnerable individuals in the world today , amnesty international said . sex workers remain among the most vulnerable individuals in the world today , amnesty international said . photo : anne holmesphnom penh ( khmer times ) – sex workers in cambodia work in a legal no - man ’ s land . though selling sex is illegal according to a human trafficking law passed in 2008 , police rarely enforce the law , turning a blind eye in return for bribes or sexual favors , according to advocacy groups working on the issue . brothels were shut down in a 2008 crackdown as a result of the law , but many sex workers continue to work in karaoke parlors or on public sidewalks . amnesty international says the criminalization of sex work only puts these women in greater danger of abuse from clients or police . in a landmark decision tuesday , amnesty ’ s decision - making body , the international council meeting , voted for a resolution supporting “ the full decriminalization of all aspects of consensual sex work . ” the resolution has no legal power , but amnesty international will begin lobbying governments , including cambodia ’ s , to legalize the sex trade . the decision has stoked controversy , with supporters saying it will make sex workers safer , while opponents say it will only clear the way for pimps to exploit their workers and strengthen the sex trade . outside the law “ sex workers are one of the most marginalized groups in the world , who in most instances face constant risk of discrimination , violence and abuse . our global movement paved the way for adopting a policy for the protection of the human rights of sex workers , ” amnesty international secretary general salil shetty said in a statement yesterday . those who work directly with sex workers say keeping their trade illegal increases the risk of abuse . teo sichan , program director for the cambodia women ’ s development agency , has worked with phnom penh sex workers for years , walking through tuol kork neighborhood at night handing out condoms and teaching them about safe sex . she said the passage of a 2008 anti - trafficking law led to a crackdown on brothels , forcing many sex workers to begin “ freelancing ” in karaoke parlors , nightclubs , or riskier venues such as public parks and streets . many of the women take their clients back to a guesthouse , but it is easier for them to be abducted , abused , or worse . “ independent work on the streets is more dangerous , ” ms . sichan said . on july 31 , six construction workers confessed to raping and murdering a 26 - year - old karaoke parlor worker in pur senchey neighborhood . one of them waited until she left the venue , then paid her $10 to accompany him back to a temporary shelter at the construction site . once there , he and the other men raped her and then beat her to death , according to their testimony in court . blurred linespolice can be part of the problem , ms . sichan said . “ the police always control the public areas , and they identify who the sex workers are , but most of the time they ignore them , ” she explained . sometimes , though , some police take advantage of prostitutes , threatening them with detention if they don ’ t pay a bribe , she added . “ sometimes the officer is good , sometimes the officer is bad . ” it is an open secret that women are sometimes forced to pay police part of their earnings to keep working on the street . “ the sex workers have to pay the police $10 to get out of the detention centers , ” said chan dyna , technical coordinator of the cambodia prostitute union . other times money isn ’ t enough , and the officers expect sexual favors . despite the exploitation , sex workers do not resort to legal action : “ most of them don ’ t want to use legal assistance against police , ” ms . sichan said , “ because they are afraid . ” some prostitutes have even stopped carrying condoms , since the condoms could be used as evidence against them in court if police arrest them . this puts them at greater risk of contracting sexually transmitted infections ( stis ) . when they are arrested , the women are sent to temporary detention centers like prey speu , which ms . sichan described as little better than prison . they sometimes also receive vocational training from ngos to help them find a new career , but ms . sichan said the arrests and vocational training do little to help women break out of the sex trade . “ they go back to work , ” ms . sichan said . “ nobody can stop them . because of the economic crisis they have to work to support their families . ” amnesty ’ s call unlikely to be heededif amnesty international successfully lobbies cambodia to legalize the sex trade , it would make the country ’ s sex - worker legislation as permissive as the netherlands . ngos that work closely with sex workers say it would be a welcome change . “ the law should not forbid [sex workers] from doing business – it should educate them about stis , ” said ms . dyna . nevertheless , ngo workers say it is unlikely that amnesty international ’ s new policy will lead the country to adopt more lenient punishments for sex workers . ms . sichan said there is strong cultural prejudice against the sex trade in cambodia . “ with cambodian culture , it is currently impossible for sex work to be legal , ” she said . meanwhile , ngos are working to educate sex workers about safe sex and prevent police from exploiting them . “ now we just lobby the police to understand the situation . ” said ms . sichan . additional reporting by chea takihiro
__label__relevant a look into the lives of the kingdom ’ s tech - savvy night angels a look into the lives of the kingdom ’ s tech - savvy night angelsa man looks at pictures posted by sex workers on facebook . with the advent of technology , sex workers are now moving online to expand their clientele . a man looks at pictures posted by sex workers on facebook . with the advent of technology , sex workers are now moving online to expand their clientele . kt / pann rachanafrom selling clothes to cosmetics , e - commerce has quickly become the go - to money - making venture in the kingdom . the improvement in internet access and innovations in smartphone technology has opened doors for cambodians to advertise their products and services on social media . unfortunately , the growth of online retail has welcomed some unexpected visitors , with the entry of the oldest profession in the world : prostitution . last week , in a facebook group with some 80 , 000 members , a female member posted a picture of herself , scantily dressed , with her face carefully hidden behind a smiley emoticon . “ who wants to have a good time ? ” she wrote in khmer . “ i need money . send me a private message now . for those in phnom penh only , ” she said , not bothering to hide the innuendo behind her invitation . unsurprisingly , her post turned the heads of many of the male members , as they wrote comments asking about her charges . with the intent of getting more details about the attention - grabbing business , i sent her a private message and set an appointment under the guise of interest . “ it will cost you $35 an hour . if you ’ re willing , you can come to my apartment in tuol kork [district] , ” she replied . her apartment building is located in the poorer part of the district . she greeted me with warmth as soon as she opened the door . not five minutes in , she asked me to take my clothes off . she said i needed to hurry because she had another client coming by . not wanting to bare my body to a stranger , i came clean and told her i was a journalist who came with the intent of interviewing her . she refused at first , as i expected , but eventually agreed under two conditions : first , questions about her past were off - limits and second , i had to pay for her time . knowing lilyshe wanted to be called lily . lily used to stand along the streets of wat phnom , waiting for a client to approach her and whisk her away to a nondescript motel . with her are other women also hoping to grab the attention of a moneyed man looking for immediate gratification . her profession earned her about $500 a month although a third of it went to her pimp , whom she said “ protects ” her . “ at wat phnom , i was constantly worried about police raids . it was also very difficult to get a client , ” she said . the anxiety from the risks of being exposed to a sudden arrest took a toll on lily . so , when a friend suggested she bring her business online , she didn ’ t hesitate to follow through . the move proved fruitful as she earned up to $2 , 000 a month – significantly higher than what she used to earn . “ all i had to do was create a page where i constantly posted my pictures for the clients to see , ” she said . “ men are always looking for our services . ” the men she serviced always came in different garbs . some of them were young and in high school uniforms , while others were ageing wearing hawaiian shirts . most of them were too shy to go to brothels , afraid someone would recognise them . “ of course , i am not proud of what i ’ m doing but this is a business , ” she said . “ i am a working girl . ” introducing thidathida is another phnom penh - based sex worker who relies on facebook and bigo live , a popular live video - streaming app , to make a living . a divorced mother of two who also supports her elderly mother , thida struggles to make ends meet despite earning about $600 a month . “ this apps help me a lot . they offer functions which enhance your appearance , like making your skin fairer , ” she said . “ men are only interested in physical features . ” “ not all men who message me want my service . some of them are lonely men who simply want to talk about sex because they cannot afford my fee . of course , there are also weird ones who send me pictures of their private parts and ask me to have sex with them for free , ” thida noted . the plight of sex workersdespite the money they make , both thida and lily , as well as most sex workers , recognise the risks their profession poses . having to deal with strangers every day , none of them knows what kind of client they could run into . “ once , a man paid me $150 to spend a whole night with him in his apartment , ” said one of them . “ when i got there , six men were waiting for me . they would not let me go unless i have sex with all of them . i had no choice . the only luck i had was they all used condoms . ” “ one of my clients filmed me on his phone while we were having sex then proceeded to share the video with his friends . it eventually went public on a porn website , ” recounted the other . despite the rape and abuse both had gone through , the two women know they cannot ask for police assistance without being at risk of being arrested as well , having a profession which is illicit in the country . despite being banned , prostitution in the kingdom remains prevalent . a 2016 un report disclosed around 34 , 000 prostitutes work in cambodia , many of whom are vietnamese . the law on suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation , which was enacted in 2008 , punishes everyone involved in prostitution , from the procurers and brothel owners to the sex workers themselves . ros sopheap , executive director of gender and development of cambodia , said the criminalisation of prostitution only further victimises the sex worker . “ i called for the legalisation of prostitution in cambodia because it is the only way to make it safe for the workers and protect them from all kinds of abuse , ” said ms sopheap . “ the provision of sexual services has been seen as something going against the social norms and values expected from khmer women . but [prostitution] is a trade business between two adults – a concept yet to be accepted by the public and the government , ” she said . meanwhile , con artists have taken advantage of online prostitution at the expense of unsuspecting men . according to the victims , some swindlers , pretending to be sex workers or pimps , trick the men into paying first through mobile banking apps before they could “ avail ” the service . they then run away with the money , leaving the victims penniless and unsatisfied . “ once , when i caught a swindler who did that , he threatened to send screenshots of our facebook conversations to my wife , whom he found through my account , ” said a male victim who asked to be anonymous . ms sopheap argued legalisation and regulation of prostitution are needed to control sex trade in cambodia . “ otherwise , both the worker and the client will suffer , ” she said . colonel keo thea , phnom penh anti - human trafficking department chief , could not be reached for comment . 
__label__no_relevant migrant sex workers fear for the future migrant sex workers fear for the future “ bua ” used to earn up to 40 , 000 baht a month as a sex worker in the northern province of chiang mai when the coronavirus forced entertainment venues to close , leaving her jobless . since march , the 32 - year - old single mother , who is burmese , has racked up debts of more than 15 , 000 baht to pay for her daughter ' s education and rent . ms bua survived on handouts from the sex worker group empower foundation , which ranged from rice to tampons , since government handouts required her to show a thai identification card . " if it wasn ' t for empower , i would have committed suicide , " said ms bua , who asked in a phone interview not to use her real name and requested anonymity so family members did not find out about her work . while thailand has announced plans for bars , pubs and karaoke venues to re - open from wednesday this week after being closed for four months , sex workers fear there will be few clients as many are foreigners and the borders remain closed . a 2014 unaids report estimated there were 123 , 530 sex workers in thailand but advocacy groups put the figure at more than twice that number , including tens of thousands of migrants from neighbouring myanmar , laos , cambodia and vietnam . many young women are now among the 2 million thais the state planning agency believes may be made unemployed this year because of the impact of the virus . in thailand , prostitution is illegal and punishable by a fine of 1 , 000 baht , and customers who pay for sex with underage workers can be jailed for up to six years . but over the years , the country has come to be known for sex tourism , with large numbers frequenting bars , massage parlours and karaoke lounges that have multiplied as tourist numbers soared as the law is not enforced . the coronavirus crisis has forced many sex workers to turn to new types of work , from selling goods to becoming waitresses . but for migrant workers , there are fewer options . left outactivists say migrant or stateless sex workers are among the hardest hit by the economic impact of the coronavirus . when ms bua applied for a job at a grocery store , she was told they preferred to hire thai staff despite her perfect thai . " we have been abandoned . we have been made invisible , even though we face more hardship than others and were the first ( to be unemployed after the coronavirus ) , " said mai junta , a representative from empower foundation in chiang mai . thailand has introduced a raft of measures to help workers affected by the coronavirus , including financial aid for informal thai workers and for thai and foreign workers registered under the social security system . but a survey by empower in april found only 5% of sex workers are part of the social security system , and 35% have no access to government aid . the rest could access cash relief . " the government should help all nationalities , since at the end of the day we are all human beings who have suffered ( from the outbreak ) . the government shouldn ' t discriminate , " ms mai told the thomson reuters foundation . the department of women ' s affairs and family development didn ' t immediately respond to a request for comment . the service workers in group ( swing ) , a support organisation for sex workers , conducted a survey in may that found some sex workers in bangkok were refused financial aid after they indicated they were sex workers . " but some got the 5 , 000 baht ( aid ) because they lied ( about their occupation ) . there ' s no place for sex workers in this government ' s policy , " swing president chalidaporn songsamphan told a livestream discussion hosted by the foreign correspondents ' club of thailand in may . " the thai state has had this ambivalence towards sex work and sex workers . this is a factor that explains why so many of them can ' t access any assistance from the state . " despite entertainment venues re - opening , 50 - year - old mint - not her real name - doubts business will be back to normal with the country ' s borders still closed , crippling tourism in bangkok which was the world ' s most visited city for four years . after losing her job in chiang mai , the burmese sex worker moved in with a friend to split the rent , selling her jewellery to pay for the housing . she applied for a job as a masseuse but was rejected by several places even though she was trained , because thai law prohibits foreigners from working in certain jobs . when she applied as a chef at a restaurant , she was told she was too old . " i ' m so stressed out . . . with no money left and i can ' t go back home , " said ms mint , who requested anonymity in a phone interview because of the shame associated with prostitution . " i guess i ' ll just have to grin and bear it . i don ' t know what else to do . " 
__label__no_relevant inside the world of cambodia ' s child sex trade , as told through the eyes of a survivor inside the world of cambodia ' s child sex trade , as told through the eyes of a survivor sokha hides a dark past from her childhood that still haunts her to this day .  - - at first glance , 22 - year - old sokha chan might seem like your average young california girl . she has a lap dog named chica , and her own car that she bought herself . but behind her seemingly charmed life , sokha hides a dark past from her childhood that still haunts her to this day . and for the first time , she ’ s decided to travel 8 , 000 miles to confront that past , going back to where her life started in cambodia . cambodia is often called “ the kingdom of wonder , ” but turn down certain side streets and there is a sordid world where sex is the hot commodity and children are still used as currency . it ’ s a country that was almost destroyed by civil war and genocide , and experts say it was out of that brutal and lawless period , following the fall of the khmer rouge , that prostitution and child sex trafficking began to flourish . sokha grew up in a poor village near phnom penh , the capital city . she said she was just 7 years old when she was sold for sex to an american man named michael joseph pepe , a former u . s . marine , who was then living as an ex - pat in phnom penh . “ he won my virginity , ” sokha said . she did not know why he had come to cambodia to buy a child like her for sex . “ nightline ” obtained hidden camera footage of several western men who appear to be soliciting sex with underage girls in cambodia . at one point , a man could be heard asking for a 10 - year - old girl . another asks for a 14 - year - old , while another said he would take an 8 - year - old . the video was shot over the last two years by agape international missions , or aim , an organization dedicated to fighting child sex trafficking in cambodia . despite progress made by the government to crack down on the issue , it is still a major problem in the country . former pastor don brewster and his wife bridget founded aim to protect cambodian children , like sokha , from men like the ones captured on video . don brewster says pedophiles will come to cambodia for sex because “ they can get away with it . ” “ the [pedophiles] are ending a childhood , ” he continued . “ they may not [end] a life , but they ' re killing a child in the sense that a childhood is gone that ' ll never be regained . sokha will never have a childhood . ” officials say the problem is getting better . prostitution is now illegal , but don brewster says it is still rampant in cambodia , operating out of massage parlors , bars and karaoke lounges . and in some back rooms , underage girls like sokha are still being abused and sold for sex . the brewsters say what happened to sokha was a “ virgin sale , ” and it was just the beginning of her horrors in the sex trade . sokha says she spent years shuttled to different illegal brothels , always locked in a dark room . “ if you see that room , you would know that i ' m going to die in there , ” she told " nightline . " “ that room is so dark and doesn ' t have everything . doesn ' t have the light , doesn ' t have the restroom , doesn ' t have nothing . ” “ and i cry every day , ” sokha continued . “ i [was] scared every moment , and now i [am] still scared of the dark . when i sleep at night , i don ' t close my eyes … because i feel like they [will] call me out of the room , and do something on me . ” when she was 12 years old , a miracle happened : she was rescued . “ the gate opens and all the police came in and that ' s how they arrest them , ” she said . sokha was freed by an ngo working with the brewsters . when he first met sokha , don brewster said she was really shy and quiet , and suffered from a “ pretty significant ” tic . they brought sokha to their long running aftercare center , where victims of child sex trafficking come to heal . the center is one of the multiple facilities aim operates in cambodia . the horrific undercover videos obtained by " nightline " were filmed on the same streets where the brewsters now live . “ there ’ s no shame … coming into a little community like this , stopping in front of the school back there and asking the first person you see , ‘i want to have sex with a young girl , ’ ” don brewster said . the brewsters said every building of their facility in svay pak , once known internationally as a hotbed for child prostitution , used to be a brothel that sold children - - some as young as 8 years old . “ this was the worst brothel in a village that was brothel after brothel after brothel , ” he said . “ i say the worst because this is where the kids were hurt , this is where the young kids were the 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 - year - old kids were housed in this building . ” as don walked " nightline " through one particular building , he pointed out a room where he said kids were trapped and forced to have sex with strangers . “ there was no lights down here , ” he said . “ the back door was cemented close so they couldn ’ t escape out the back way . ” the brewsters say they know many more girls like sokha are still out there , unable to escape . two years ago , with the help of some donors , they created their own brothel - raiding swat team , working alongside the cambodian national police , to capture traffickers and rescue girls . eric meldrum , a scottish - born former u . k . police officer , leads the aim swat effort . aim took “ nightline ” inside a raid to take down another alleged sex trafficker known as “ the mama - san . ” meldrum called her “ the main trafficker ” running the brothel they wanted to raid and said she was using a massage parlor as a front . after several tense hours , the investigators raided the brothel , isolated and arrested “ the mama - san ” and rescued several young girls , including two minors . they were taken to a police station with aim social workers . just three days after being taken out of the brothel , don brewster and the aim team welcomed the girls to their facility where they all were given new clothes and crowned with a tiara . it ’ s an aim ritual that every rescued girl is presented with a princess crown . ten years ago , sokha was one of those girls to receive a tiara . she said her freedom has meant everything to her . “ i want ending of the trafficking , ” she said . “ i want to help another girl . ” many girls arrive at the aim facility often feeling like they have no value , no longer able to earn money for their families , even if those families are the ones who sold them in the first place . aim told us that sokha ’ s mother was the one who sold her daughter to michael pepe , an american who was extradited to the u . s . and convicted of seven counts of illegal sex acts with a child in 2008 . the crimes were all committed in cambodia and all seven of the girls are cambodian , one of which sokha . . he was sentenced to 210 years in prison in 2014 . “ i [was] angry at her and i did cry about it , ” sokha said . “ i told her , ‘i can do everything for you , like go sell fruit at the market , i can do that , but please don ’ t sell me . ’ ” sokha obtained a visa to move to the u . s . after testifying in pepe ' s trial . she works as a nail technician and a baker , attends church , and lives with an american family . sokha took " nightline " back to her village , to confront her mother about what happened to her 15 years ago . her mother told us she was extremely poor , and when a woman said a café needed a waitress and offered her $100 a month for her daughter , she jumped at the chance . she denied knowing the café was a front for a brothel . but sokha says the more unforgivable thing her mother did was selling her virginity to a pedophile . when sokha asked her mother why she put her in micheal pepe ’ s house , her mother said she gave her over to work as a maid for him , but she denied selling her to him . then , for the first time , sokha revealed to her mother , in great detail , some of the awful moments she faced as a little girl - - being beaten , forced to take drugs and have sex with strangers . sokha ’ s mother asked sokha if she could forgive her for the wrong she did to her in the past , to which sokha told her mother she forgave her . at the end of their conversation , both women were in tears . sokha has a new life , which she says is a better life , and has tried to move past these years of fear and darkness . when she was a little girl , sokha said she felt like “ the ugly one in the world , ” who no one loved . but now , she said , “ i am a princess . ” abc news ' ashan singh , gamay palacios and lauren effron contributed to this report
__label__no_relevant japan offers sex workers financial aid during the coronavirus pandemic photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak nuns of the missionaries of charity , the order founded by mother teresa , wear masks and face shields as they distribute food to the poor and homeless in kolkata , india , on wednesday , august 26 . hide caption 1 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak cemetery workers carry wilson gil ' s remains on the outskirts of lima , peru , on wednesday , august 26 . gil died of complications related to covid - 19 , according to family members . hide caption 2 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak workers in new delhi prepare to cremate the body of a coronavirus victim on saturday , august 22 . hide caption 3 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak thousands of people gather for an electronic music festival at a water park in wuhan , china , on saturday , august 15 . the novel coronavirus was first reported in wuhan late last year . hide caption 4 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a health worker administers a covid - 19 test in the indian village of kusumpur on monday , august 17 . hide caption 5 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people gather in little venice on the aegean sea island of mykonos , greece , on sunday , august 16 . hide caption 6 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak funeral workers in peru ' s uchumayo district bury a coffin in a massive burial ground for low - income people and unidentified victims of covid - 19 . hide caption 7 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a man receives an injection while taking part in a vaccine trial in hollywood , florida , on august 13 . hide caption 8 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak election officials sort absentee ballots in atlanta , where there were several runoffs taking place on august 11 . hide caption 9 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak gravediggers bury a coronavirus victim at the pondok ranggon cemetery in jakarta , indonesia , on august 10 . hide caption 10 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak kindergarten students wear face masks and play in screened - in areas at the wat khlong toey school in bangkok , thailand , on august 10 . hide caption 11 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak medics wait to transport a woman with possible covid - 19 symptoms to a hospital in austin , texas , on august 7 . hide caption 12 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a coronavirus victim is lowered into the ground during her funeral in new delhi on august 7 . hide caption 13 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak resident doctors and interns attend a rally in seoul , south korea , on august 7 . they were protesting the government ' s plan to expand admissions to medical schools — a policy meant to address a shortage in physicians . hide caption 14 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a health worker performs a covid - 19 test at a gymnasium in navotas , philippines , on august 6 . hide caption 15 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a worker disinfects a public school in brasilia , brazil , on august 5 . the local government has begun preparations for the reopening of schools in early september . hide caption 16 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak cemetery workers carry the coffin of a covid - 19 victim at a graveyard in comas , peru , on august 5 . hide caption 17 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak an empty swanston street is seen in melbourne ' s central business district on august 5 . australia ' s second - most populous city has implemented a curfew for the next six weeks . hide caption 18 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak elementary school students walk to class in godley , texas , on august 5 . three rural school districts in johnson county were among the first in the state to head back to school for in - person classes . hide caption 19 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak poll worker debra moore sanitizes her workspace during a primary election in detroit on august 4 . hide caption 20 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a stylist from grey matter la cuts a client ' s hair on a rooftop parking lot in los angeles on august 4 . hide caption 21 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak paul adamus , 7 , waits at the bus stop for his first day of school in dallas , georgia , on august 3 . hide caption 22 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak beds are seen at a temporary field hospital set up in hong kong on august 1 . asiaworld - expo has been converted into a makeshift hospital that can take up to 500 patients . hide caption 23 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak medical workers in yogyakarta , indonesia , showcase designs during a fashion show of personal protective equipment on august 1 . the fashion show was held as a form of gratitude for all medical personnel who have been fighting covid - 19 . hide caption 24 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a volunteer disinfects a rooftop area in rio de janeiro on august 1 . hide caption 25 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak volunteer health workers disinfect a mosque prior to eid al - adha prayers in kabul , afghanistan , on july 31 . hide caption 26 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a casket carrying the body of coronavirus victim lola m . simmons is placed into a hearse following her funeral service in dallas on july 30 . hide caption 27 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak relatives of covid - 19 patients line up to recharge oxygen cylinders in villa maria del triunfo , peru , on july 29 . hide caption 28 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people watch the film " the prestige " from a gondola boat in venice , italy , on july 28 . around the world , many films are being shown outside so that people can practice social distancing . hide caption 29 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak nurse kathe olmstead gives an injection to volunteer melissa harting in binghamton , new york , on july 27 . it was part of a clinical trial for a coronavirus vaccine . the trial is the first to reach phase 3 in the united states . hide caption 30 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a health worker tests a child for covid - 19 at a school in new delhi on july 27 . hide caption 31 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak portraits are taped onto seats to help theatergoers spread out in nicosia , cyprus , on july 27 . hide caption 32 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak the casket of a coronavirus victim is carried from a funeral home in johannesburg on july 26 . hide caption 33 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak worshippers of legio maria attend a prayer at their church in nairobi , kenya , on july 26 . places of worship have reopened in kenya under strict guidelines . hide caption 34 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a casket containing the remains of a coronavirus victim waits to be removed from a mortuary in soweto , south africa , on july 24 . hide caption 35 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak cardboard cutouts of fans are seen in globe life field during a major league baseball game in arlington , texas , on july 24 . the league has resumed for a 60 - game abbreviated season , but fans are not allowed to attend . hide caption 36 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak commuters wear face masks and face shields while traveling on a public bus in lima , peru , on july 22 . peru has mandated masks and shields on public transportation . hide caption 37 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak undertakers push the casket of a coronavirus victim during a funeral in soweto , south africa , on july 21 . hide caption 38 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak nurse gabriel leyva , second from left , treats a coronavirus patient in edinburg , texas , on july 20 . texas is among a string of southern states grappling with rising coronavirus cases . hide caption 39 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a worker measures a man ' s temperature before allowing him to enter la vega market in santiago , chile , on july 19 . hide caption 40 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak indigenous nurses in santarem , brazil , administer a covid - 19 test on chief domingos from the arapium tribe on july 19 . hide caption 41 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a restaurant ' s outdoor seating area is closed in miami beach , florida , on july 18 . the city ordered a curfew for most of its entertainment district . hide caption 42 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people watch a video projection in avignon , france , on july 18 . since the avignon theatre festival has been canceled because of the coronavirus pandemic , the festival ' s organization has been projecting plays that made its history . hide caption 43 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak guests arrive at disney ' s epcot park in lake buena vista , florida , on july 15 . the park was reopening , as was hollywood studios , for the first time since march 15 . hide caption 44 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak doctors from the palestinian ministry of health take blood samples in hebron , west bank , on july 15 . hide caption 45 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak health - care workers and union members demonstrate during a bastille day protest in paris on july 14 . france is giving health - care workers a raise for their efforts to fight the novel coronavirus . hide caption 46 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak health workers in mumbai , india , screen residents for covid - 19 symptoms on july 14 . hide caption 47 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak activist thomas kennedy is escorted away by security as he heckles florida gov . ron desantis during a briefing in miami on july 13 . if florida were a country , it would have ranked no . 9 in the number of covid - 19 cases worldwide , according to johns hopkins data that day . hide caption 48 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak ultra - orthodox jews gather for a july 13 protest over lockdown measures in jerusalem . hide caption 49 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak british prime minister boris johnson talks with a paramedic during his visit to the headquarters of the london ambulance service nhs trust on july 13 . wearing face masks in shops and supermarkets in england will be compulsory from july 24 . the united kingdom is one of the countries worst hit by coronavirus . its fatalities trail only brazil and the united states . hide caption 50 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak members of the bungoma county isolation team stand by the coffin of dr . doreen lugaliki during her funeral in ndalu , kenya , on july 13 . lugaliki , 39 , died from complications related to the novel coronavirus . hide caption 51 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people play volleyball in hermosa beach , california , on july 12 . los angeles county beaches were reopened after being closed over the fourth of july weekend . california is one of almost three dozen states in which cases were rising . hide caption 52 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak the boxed cremated remains of mexicans who died from covid - 19 are covered before a service at st . patrick ' s cathedral in new york on july 11 . the ashes were blessed before they were repatriated to mexico . hide caption 53 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak us president donald trump wears a face mask as he visits walter reed national military medical center in bethesda , maryland , on july 11 . this was the first time since the pandemic began that the white house press corps got a glimpse of trump with a face covering . hide caption 54 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak in this handout photo provided by the walt disney world resort , a worker welcomes guests to the magic kingdom park in lake buena vista , florida , on july 11 . the park ' s reopening came the same weekend that florida reached a record high for single - day case count increase . hide caption 55 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak protesters clash with police in front of serbia ' s national assembly building in belgrade on july 8 . people were demonstrating against president aleksandar vucic after he announced a weekend - long curfew to try to combat a surge in coronavirus cases . hide caption 57 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak firefighters dressed in personal protective equipment prepare to distribute food at a public housing tower in north melbourne , australia , on july 7 . metropolitan melbourne was placed under lockdown amid a resurgence of coronavirus cases . hide caption 58 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak cars line up in the hard rock stadium parking lot so drivers could be tested in miami gardens , florida , on july 6 . hide caption 59 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak peruvian migrant jose collantes cries as he watches cemetery workers bury his wife , silvia cano , in santiago , chile , on july 3 . she died of coronavirus complications , according to collantes . hide caption 60 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak us president donald trump speaks at the mount rushmore national memorial in keystone , south dakota , on july 3 . social distancing was not observed at the independence day celebration , where trump claimed that 99% of coronavirus cases in america are " totally harmless . " hide caption 61 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak dr . anthony fauci , director of the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases , wears a washington nationals mask june 30 as he arrives to testify at a senate committee hearing about the coronavirus pandemic . fauci issued a stark warning to lawmakers , telling them he wouldn ' t be surprised if the united states sees new cases of coronavirus rising to a level of 100 , 000 a day . hide caption 62 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a city council worker carries trash from a coronavirus testing center in leicester , england , on june 29 . schools and stores in the city of leicester were closing again , with some restrictions being reimposed because of its high infection rate . hide caption 63 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman walks along a road painted with circles to help people maintain social distancing in mumbai , india , on june 29 . hide caption 64 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a member of the bar staff at murray ' s pub serves a pint of guinness in dublin , ireland , on june 29 . people in ireland are tentatively returning to shops , hair salons and restaurants as the country emerges from its coronavirus lockdown . hide caption 65 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak agustina cañamero and pascual pérez kiss each other through a plastic screen at a nursing home in barcelona , spain , on june 22 . they ' ve been married for 59 years . hide caption 66 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak hugo , 3 , has his temperature taken by a teacher as he arrives at kindergarten in barcelona on june 26 . hide caption 67 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a beach is slammed with people in bournemouth , england , during a heat wave on june 25 . british prime minister boris johnson began easing coronavirus restrictions in may , but people are still supposed to be distancing themselves from one another . after thousands flocked to beaches , officials in southern england declared a " major incident . " hide caption 68 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak mannequins sit at the elpaso bar in ankara , turkey , to make customers observe social distancing on june 24 . the bar reopened after being closed for weeks . hide caption 69 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a ceremonial soldier wears a face mask during russia ' s victory day parade in moscow on june 24 . a major celebration was originally planned to take place in may , with world leaders invited to attend , but it was postponed by the kremlin after veterans organizations voiced concerns about the health risks such an event might pose amid the coronavirus crisis . hide caption 70 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak health - care workers prepare to conduct covid - 19 testing in mumbai , india , on june 23 . hide caption 71 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak graves are seen at the general cemetery in santiago , chile , on june 23 . chile is among the latin american countries hardest hit by the coronavirus . hide caption 72 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak malia pena and her mother , lisa torriente , wear masks as they visit the beach in santa monica , california , on june 23 . california was among 25 states that had recorded higher rates of new cases compared to the previous week . hide caption 73 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people worship at the kaaba , islam ' s holiest shrine , at the grand mosque complex in mecca , saudi arabia , on june 23 . saudi arabia has announced it will hold a " very limited " hajj celebration this year . hide caption 74 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a man has his throat swabbed june 17 at a covid - 19 testing site for those who were potentially exposed to the coronavirus at a wholesale food market in beijing . for 55 days , the chinese capital had not reported any locally transmitted infections , but a fresh cluster of coronavirus cases emerged from a sprawling wholesale food market in the city , infecting more than 180 people as of june 19 . hide caption 75 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people are spread out as former vice president joe biden , the democratic party ' s presumptive presidential nominee , speaks in darby , pennsylvania , on june 17 . hide caption 76 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a firefighter in chennai , india , sprays disinfectant to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus on june 11 . hide caption 77 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak the sun sets over a cemetery for coronavirus victims near najaf , iraq , on june 10 . hide caption 78 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman is sprayed with disinfectant before entering a shopping mall in jakarta , indonesia , on june 9 . hide caption 79 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak teachers in barcelona , spain , try to prevent a hug between 6 - year - olds wendy otin and oumou salam niang as they meet on the first day of school following a lockdown . hide caption 80 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak isidre correa , who is recovering from the coronavirus , is taken to the seaside in barcelona , spain , on june 3 . hospital del mar has been taking patients to the seaside as part of the recovery process . hide caption 81 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak dealers wear masks june 3 just before the reopening of the d hotel and casino in las vegas . hide caption 82 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak government health workers test a resident on the brazilian island of marajo on june 1 . hide caption 83 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak workers spray disinfectant inside a movie theater in bangkok , thailand , ahead of its reopening on may 31 . hide caption 84 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people try out social - distancing " bumper tables " as the fish tales restaurant opened for in - person dining in ocean city , maryland , on may 29 . hide caption 85 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people carry the coffin of a suspected coronavirus victim at the nueva esperanza cemetery , on the outskirts of lima , peru , on may 28 . peru has the second - highest number of coronavirus cases in south america , behind brazil . hide caption 86 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak shaandiin p . parrish , miss navajo nation , helps distribute food and other supplies to navajo families in counselor , new mexico , on may 27 . navajo nation has been hit hard by the coronavirus . hide caption 87 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak commuters crowd a train station in tokyo during the morning rush hour on may 26 . hide caption 88 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak students take their spring exams at the vallhall sports arena in oslo , norway , on may 26 . hide caption 89 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak preschool students wait to wash their hands before class in abidjan , ivory coast , on may 25 . the country became one of the first in west africa to restart lessons after a two - month coronavirus shutdown . hide caption 90 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a security official stands guard at the great hall of the people in beijing as delegates leave the second plenary session of the national people ' s congress . hide caption 91 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak olivia grant , right , hugs her grandmother , mary grace sileo , through a plastic drop cloth that was hung up on a homemade clothesline in wantagh , new york , on may 24 . hide caption 92 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak brian carabine , a retired us marine , replaces flags at the south end cemetery in east hampton , new york , just before memorial day . hide caption 93 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak high school graduates turn their tassels during a drive - thru graduation ceremony at the las vegas motor speedway on may 22 . hide caption 94 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak this aerial photo shows gravediggers working at the vila formosa cemetery , on the outskirts of sao paulo , brazil , on may 22 . the coronavirus is surging in brazil , the hardest - hit country in latin america . hide caption 95 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak workers wear protective gear as they start a cremation oven in ecatepec , mexico , on may 21 . hide caption 96 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a health worker wears a face shield while checking a patient ' s temperature at a hospital in toluca , mexico , on may 21 . mexico had reported its highest number of new daily cases . hide caption 97 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak on may 21 , people lower the coffin of a woman who died from the coronavirus in srinagar , india . hide caption 98 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak cardboard cutouts of soccer fans are seen at the borussia - park stadium in mönchengladbach , germany , on may 19 . the bundesliga , germany ' s top pro soccer league , became the first major european competition to return amid the coronavirus pandemic . hide caption 99 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak levi tinker , resident historian and general manager of the tcl chinese theatre in hollywood , makes an announcement inside the theater ' s empty auditorium on may 18 . it was the theater ' s 93rd birthday celebration . hide caption 100 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people practice social distancing in new york ' s domino park on may 17 . hide caption 101 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak nurses in nairobi , kenya , take part in a zumba fitness class in the parking lot of the kenyatta university teaching , referral and research hospital on may 17 . hide caption 102 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak kevin harvick celebrates with a burnout after winning a nascar cup series race in darlington , south carolina , on may 17 . it was nascar ' s first race since its season was halted because of the pandemic . no fans were in attendance . hide caption 103 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak angelino , a professional soccer player with the german club rb leipzig , takes a corner kick during a bundesliga match against freiburg on may 16 . the stadium was nearly empty , as no more than 322 people are able to attend each bundesliga match until the end of the season . hide caption 104 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak mary faye cochran sings " you are my sunshine " to her son stacey smith from her senior - living facility in smyrna , georgia , on may 10 . it was mother ' s day in the united states . hide caption 105 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak pope francis delivers a blessing from the window of his studio overlooking an empty st . peter ' s square on may 10 . hide caption 106 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak the san isidro cemetery in mexico city , which was temporarily closed to the public to limit the spread of covid - 19 , is seen in this aerial photo from may 10 . hide caption 107 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak mary washington speaks through a window to her daughter courtney crosby and grandchild sydney crosby during a mother ' s day celebration at her senior - living facility in smyrna . hide caption 108 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a briarcliff high school student participates in a parade of graduating seniors through briarcliff manor , new york , on may 9 . hide caption 109 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people wear face masks while watching a victory day military parade in minsk , belarus , on may 9 . the parade marked the 75th anniversary of the allied victory over nazi germany in world war ii . hide caption 110 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a man rides past social - distancing markers in front of a shop in brussels , belgium , on may 9 . hide caption 111 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a man pauses as he places the casket of a relative into a van at a busy new york funeral home on may 9 . hide caption 112 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak health - care workers wait for citizens to arrive at the anna international airport in chennai , india , on may 9 . people were arriving in chennai from dubai , united arab emirates . hide caption 113 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a man wearing a face mask cycles through chinatown in yokohama , japan , on may 8 . prime minister shinzo abe announced that japan will extend its state of emergency until the end of may . hide caption 114 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak american citizens who were stranded in syria due to the pandemic arrive at the lebanese border on their way to the beirut airport , where they would be leaving for the united states . hide caption 115 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak during a protest in washington on may 7 , members of national nurses united stand among empty shoes that they say represent nurses who have died from covid - 19 . hide caption 116 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a worker helps disinfect a subway train in new york on may 6 . the subway syatem was shut down for a deep - cleaning . hide caption 117 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak high school students study in a classroom in wuhan , china , as they returned to school on may 6 . hide caption 118 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a nursery is disinfected in cannes , france , on may 6 . nurseries in france were to gradually reopen on may 11 . hide caption 119 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak refrigerated trucks are seen at a morgue that opened in new york to assist overwhelmed funeral homes . hide caption 120 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak migrant workers in new delhi walk toward the sarai kale khan bus terminus on may 3 after learning that the government was preparing to send migrant workers back to their home states during the lockdown . in march , prime minister narendra modi urged all states to seal their borders to stop the coronavirus from being imported into rural areas . hide caption 121 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people exercise on a seafront promenade in barcelona , spain , on may 2 . spaniards filled the country ' s streets to work out for the first time after seven weeks of confinement in their homes . hide caption 122 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak michigan state police prevent protesters from entering the chamber of the michigan house of representatives on april 30 . the protesters were unhappy with the state ' s stay - at - home order . gov . gretchen whitmer recently extended the order through may 15 , though restrictions were relaxed so some businesses could reopen . hide caption 123 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak this aerial photo shows surfers accessing sydney ' s tamarama beach on april 29 . several sydney beaches reopened for exercise only . hide caption 124 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak us vice president mike pence visits dennis nelson , a patient who survived the coronavirus and was going to give blood , during a tour of the mayo clinic in rochester , minnesota , on april 28 . pence chose not to wear a face mask during the tour despite the facility ' s policy that ' s been in place since april 13 . pence told reporters that he wasn ' t wearing a mask because he ' s often tested for coronavirus . hide caption 125 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a barber wears protective equipment as he cuts a customer ' s hair in lausanne , switzerland , on april 27 . hide caption 126 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak after recovering from the coronavirus , british prime minister boris johnson returned to work on april 27 . hide caption 127 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak health workers at a coronavirus testing center in new delhi attend to a colleague who fainted due to exhaustion on april 27 . hide caption 128 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak families walk along a boulevard in barcelona , spain , on april 26 . the government now allows children to go out once a day , for one hour , within about half a mile of their homes , with one adult who lives with them . up to three kids can go with each adult . hide caption 129 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a muezzin , the person at a mosque who calls muslims to daily prayers , reads the quran at a mosque in gaza city after ramadan began on april 24 . hide caption 130 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak pitrik van der lubbe waves from a boom lift to his 88 - year - old father , henk , at his father ' s nursing home in gouda , netherlands , on april 24 . pitrik had not seen his father in more than four weeks . hide caption 131 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak protesters shout slogans against lebanese central bank governor riad salamé as they block hamra street in beirut , lebanon , on april 23 . anti - government protesters have been demonstrating in beirut as they continue to endure one of its worst - ever economic crises . hide caption 132 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a boy plays hopscotch at his home in a coruna , spain , on april 23 . hide caption 133 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak omar rodriguez organizes caskets at the gerard neufeld funeral home in new york on april 22 . the funeral home in queens has been overwhelmed by the pandemic . hide caption 134 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a dentist wears protective equipment while treating a patient in den bosch , netherlands , on april 22 . hide caption 135 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak biology teachers prepare to hold an exam at a secondary school in berlin on april 22 . hide caption 136 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a volunteer in yangon , myanmar , spreads calcium oxide on a road to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus on april 22 . hide caption 137 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak migrants wave from balconies at a hotel in kranidi , greece , on april 21 . the shelter , which hosts 470 asylum seekers , was placed in isolation after a pregnant resident tested positive for the novel coronavirus . hide caption 138 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a man disinfects a ceiling lamp at the čobanija mosque in sarajevo , bosnia and herzegovina , on april 21 . hide caption 139 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a nurse holds a newborn baby , wearing a face shield as a protective measure , at a maternity facility in jakarta , indonesia , on april 21 . hide caption 140 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak health workers at madrid ' s la paz hospital hold a minute of silence to remember joaquin diaz , the hospital ' s chief of surgery who died because of the coronavirus . hide caption 141 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman applauds from the balcony of her paris home to show support for health care workers on april 20 . hide caption 142 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a health care worker stands in a denver street on april 19 to counterprotest the hundreds of people who were demanding that stay - at - home orders be lifted . hide caption 143 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak mayor ' s office workers wear protective suits as they conduct a census in a bogota , colombia , neighborhood on april 19 . they were trying to find out how many families needed to be provided with food . hide caption 144 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak the class of 2020 tosses hats into the air at the air force academy graduation in colorado springs , colorado . hide caption 145 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman sticks her tongue out of a torn mask at a reopen maryland rally outside the state house in annapolis , maryland , on april 18 . residents in multiple states have been protesting stay - at - home orders . hide caption 146 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak newly married tyler and caryn suiters embrace following their marriage ceremony in arlington , virginia , on april 18 . the rev . andrew merrow and his wife , cameron , were the only other attendees at the ceremony , which was held at st . mary ' s episcopal church . hide caption 147 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak abed khankan cuts a customer ' s hair outdoors in malmo , sweden , on april 17 . hide caption 148 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak two women walk to rent a small paddle boat by the vltava river in prague , czech republic , on april 17 . hide caption 149 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak cars sit at a newly opened drive - in cinema in dortmund , germany , on april 17 . it ' s in front of a former blast furnace . hide caption 150 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak funeral workers in manaus , brazil , prepare the grave of a woman who is suspected to have died from the coronavirus . hide caption 151 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a member of the don bosco foundation delivers food from the fraternitas project , which serves vulnerable families in seville , spain , on april 16 . hide caption 152 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak police officers try on personal protective equipment in amritsar , india , on april 16 . hide caption 153 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak workers in nairobi , kenya , fumigate the streets and the stalls of the city park market on april 15 . hide caption 154 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak novice buddhist monks wear face shields at the molilokayaram educational institute in bangkok , thailand , on april 15 . hide caption 155 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman sits on a bench at an empty metro station in prague , czech republic , on april 15 . hide caption 156 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak health workers in barcelona , spain , acknowledge people who were showing their support from their balconies and windows . hide caption 157 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak south korean election officials sort out parliamentary ballots at a gymnasium in seoul on april 15 . hide caption 158 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak workers from the garment sector in dhaka , bangladesh , block a road during a protest demanding payment of unpaid wages . hide caption 159 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman meets with her son in a " quarantainer , " a container devised to allow people to visit each other without risking the spread of coronavirus , at a care center in utrecht , netherlands , on april 14 . hide caption 160 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak firefighters transfer a patient from an ambulance in montpelier , france , on april 14 . hide caption 161 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a cemetery worker pauses while digging graves at the san vicente cemetery in cordoba , argentina , on april 14 . hide caption 162 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak workers produce protective face masks at a new factory near tehran , iran , on april 14 . hide caption 163 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak protesters stand outside the statehouse atrium in columbus , ohio , on april 13 , to voice their opposition to stay - at - home orders . about 100 protesters assembled outside the building during gov . mike dewine ' s weekday update on the state ' s response to the pandemic . hide caption 164 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak medical workers in istanbul clap for 107 - year - old havahan karadeniz as she is discharged from the hospital on april 13 . she had just recovered from the coronavirus . hide caption 165 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people in seoul , south korea , listen to a speech from hwang kyo - ahn , who is campaigning for the upcoming parliamentary elections . hide caption 166 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a flower shop employee destroys unsold flowers in st . petersburg , russia , on april 13 . hide caption 167 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a police officer requests that people return to return to their homes during a gathering that marked the bisket jatra festival in bhaktapur , nepal . hide caption 168 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a doctor in a protective chamber tests a patient for coronavirus at a walk - in kiosk in chennai , india , on april 13 . hide caption 169 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak musicians play their instruments for a retirement home in karben , germany , on april 13 . hide caption 170 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman covers herself with plastic as heavy rain falls outside a new york hospital on april 13 . hide caption 171 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people in jerusalem attend the funeral of eliyahu bakshi - doron , israel ' s former chief rabbi who died from coronavirus complications . hide caption 172 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak in rio de janeiro , the christ the redeemer statue was illuminated to make christ look like a doctor on april 12 . hide caption 173 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak pedro opeka , founder of the akamasoa association , conducts the traditional easter mass in a granite quarry while maintaining social distancing in antananarivo , madagascar , on april 12 . hide caption 174 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak bodies are stored in a vacant room at sinai - grace hospital in detroit . two sources told cnn that at least one room , which is typically used for studies on sleeping habits , was used to store bodies because the morgue was full and morgue staff did not work at night . hide caption 175 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a couple stands in a park along the yangtze river in wuhan , china . hide caption 176 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak priest - in - charge angie smith uses her phone to broadcast an easter service from a churchyard in hartley wintney , england , on april 12 . hide caption 177 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak children wave to a person dressed as the easter bunny during a neighborhood parade in haverford , pennsylvania , on april 10 . hide caption 178 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak health workers in leganes , spain , cry during a memorial for a co - worker who died because of the coronavirus . hide caption 179 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak volunteers spray disinfectant in a favela in rio de janeiro on april 10 . hide caption 180 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak bodies are buried on new york ' s hart island on april 9 . new york city officials say that hart island , which for decades has been used as the final resting place for people who died unclaimed , will also be used for unclaimed coronavirus victims . hide caption 181 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a health care worker holds the hand of a coronavirus patient being moved at a hospital near barcelona , spain , on april 9 . hide caption 182 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak service boats spray water in london to show support for health care workers on april 9 . hide caption 183 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak employees of hyundai card , a credit card company , sit behind protective screens as they eat in an office cafeteria in seoul , south korea , on april 9 . hide caption 184 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people wait in their cars for the san antonio food bank to begin food distribution on april 9 . hide caption 185 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a worker disinfects a carved cross at the salt cathedral in zipaquira , colombia , on april 8 . hide caption 186 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a cake shop employee in athens , greece , prepares chocolate easter bunnies with face masks on april 8 . hide caption 187 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak californians sarah and aaron sanders , along with their children , use video conferencing to celebrate a passover seder with other family members on april 8 . hide caption 188 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a medical staff member from china ' s jilin province , center , cries while hugging nurses from wuhan on april 8 . wuhan was reopening its borders after 76 days . hide caption 189 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak cars in wuhan line up to leave at a highway toll station . hide caption 190 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak rabbi yaakov kotlarsky places passover seder to - go packages into a car trunk in arlington heights , illinois , on april 7 . hide caption 191 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman in london shows her support for british prime minister boris johnson on april 7 . johnson was hospitalized after his coronavirus symptoms " worsened , " according to his office . hide caption 192 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a voter checks in to cast a ballot in kenosha , wisconsin , on april 7 . the state was going through with its presidential primary despite the pandemic . hide caption 193 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a man is sprayed with disinfectant prior to going to a market in tirana , albania , on monday , april 6 . hide caption 194 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak izzie , left , and tippi wear ventilated dog masks in philadelphia on april 6 . hide caption 195 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people wait in line to bury loved ones at a cemetery in guayaquil , ecuador , on april 6 . in some parts of the overwhelmed city , bodies have been left on the streets . hide caption 196 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak police detain a doctor in quetta , pakistan , who was among dozens of health care workers protesting a lack of personal protective equipment on april 6 . hide caption 197 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a catholic priest sprinkles holy water on devotees during palm sunday celebrations in quezon city , philippines , on sunday , april 5 . hide caption 198 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people shine lights from their balcony during a nationwide candlelight vigil in bangalore , india , on april 5 . hide caption 199 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman in glasgow , scotland , watches britain ' s queen elizabeth ii give a television address regarding the coronavirus pandemic . hide caption 200 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak paramilitary members unload provisions in kampala , uganda , on saturday , april 4 . it was the first day of government food distribution for people affected by the nation ' s lockdown . hide caption 201 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a police officer wearing a coronavirus - themed outfit walks in a market in chennai , india , to raise awareness about social distancing . hide caption 202 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman in moscow cooks while watching russian president vladimir putin address the nation over the coronavirus pandemic . hide caption 203 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak the hashtag " stayhome " is projected onto the matterhorn mountain that straddles switzerland and italy on april 1 . the mountain was illuminated by swiss artist gerry hofstetter , who is transforming buildings , monuments and landscapes all over the world to raise awareness during the pandemic . hide caption 204 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak volunteers load food bags on a truck to deliver them to low - income families in panama city , panama , on april 1 . hide caption 205 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak designer friederike jorzig adjusts a mannequin wearing a wedding dress and a face mask at her store in berlin on march 31 . hide caption 206 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people pray next to the grave of musician robson de souza lopes after his burial in manaus , brazil , on march 31 . according to authorities at the amazonas health secretary , the 43 - year - old died after being diagnosed with the novel coronavirus . hide caption 207 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak chris lyndberg hands out a free lunch to a truck driver at a rest area along interstate 10 in sacaton , arizona , on march 31 . the arizona trucking association was giving away 500 dilly ' s deli lunches to show its appreciation for truck drivers who have been delivering medical supplies , food and other necessities during the coronavirus pandemic . hide caption 208 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak the usns comfort , a navy hospital ship , reaches new york city on march 30 . another hospital ship is in los angeles . both will take some of the pressure off medical facilities that are strained because of the coronavirus pandemic . hide caption 209 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak an emergency field hospital is constructed in new york ' s central park on march 30 . hide caption 210 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak farmers deliver vegetables to a customer in saint - georges - sur - cher , france , on march 29 . hide caption 211 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people listen from their homes as priests conduct sunday mass from a church roof in rome on march 29 . hide caption 212 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak gyorgy david jablonovszky and his bride , timea , are joined by close relatives during their wedding ceremony in miskolc , hungary , on march 28 . because of the coronavirus , engaged couples across the globe have had to rethink their walks down the aisle . hide caption 213 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a worker fixes partitions at a quarantine center in guwahati , india , on march 28 . hide caption 214 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak devices used in diagnosing the coronavirus are inspected in cheongju , south korea , on march 27 . the devices were being prepared for testing kits at the bio - diagnostic company sd biosensor . hide caption 215 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a student does homework in bratislava , slovakia , on march 27 . schools have been shut down across the world , and many children have been receiving their lessons online . hide caption 216 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a national guard truck sprays disinfectant in caracas , venezuela , on march 27 . hide caption 217 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people wearing face masks walk near the usns mercy after the navy hospital ship arrived in the los angeles area to assist local hospitals dealing with the coronavirus pandemic . hide caption 218 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak pope francis prays in an empty st . peter ' s square on march 27 . hide caption 219 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak coffins carrying coronavirus victims are stored in a warehouse in ponte san pietro , italy , on march 26 . they would be transported to another area for cremation . hide caption 220 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak members of iran ' s revolutionary guard prepare to take part in disinfecting the city of tehran on march 25 . hide caption 221 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak lydia hassebroek attends a ballet class from her home in new york on march 25 . hide caption 222 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people visit the beijing zoo on march 25 after it reopened its outdoor exhibits to the public . hide caption 223 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak the olympic flame is displayed in iwaki , japan , on march 25 , a day after the 2020 tokyo games were postponed . hide caption 224 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman suspected of having coronavirus is helped from her home by emergency medical technicians robert sabia , left , and mike pareja , in paterson , new jersey , on march 24 . hide caption 225 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people practice social distancing as they wait for takeout food at a shopping mall in bangkok , thailand , on march 24 . hide caption 226 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak authorities are seen in madrid , where an ice rink has been converted into a makeshift morgue to cope with the coronavirus fallout . hide caption 227 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a tourist wears a face mask while visiting the badaling section of the great wall of china on march 24 . the section reopened to visitors after being closed for two months . hide caption 228 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people arrive at the south municipal cemetery in madrid to attend the burial of a man who died from the coronavirus . hide caption 229 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak passengers arrive at hong kong international airport on march 23 . hide caption 230 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak giuseppe corbari holds sunday mass in front of photographs sent in by his congregation members in giussano , italy , on march 22 . many religious services are being streamed online so that people can worship while still maintaining their distance from others . hide caption 231 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people clap from balconies to show their appreciation for health care workers in mumbai , india . hide caption 232 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman attends a sunday service at the nairobi baptist church in nairobi , kenya , on march 22 . the service was streamed live on the internet . hide caption 233 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a syrian red crescent member sprays disinfectant along an alley of the historic hamidiyah market in damascus , syria . hide caption 234 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people are seen on california ' s huntington beach on march 21 . crowds descended on california beaches , hiking trails and parks over the weekend in open defiance of a state order to shelter in place and avoid close contact with others . hide caption 235 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a funeral service is held without family members in bergamo , italy , on march 21 . hide caption 236 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a member of the syrian violet relief group disinfects tents at a camp for displaced people in kafr jalis , syria , on march 21 . hide caption 237 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a doctor examines juan vasquez inside a testing tent at st . barnabas hospital in new york on march 20 . hide caption 238 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a mass in rio de janeiro honors coronavirus victims around the world on march 18 . brazil ' s christ the redeemer statue was lit up with flags and messages of hope in solidarity with countries affected by the pandemic . hide caption 239 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak medical staff wearing protective suits ride down an escalator at moscow ' s sheremetyevo international airport on march 18 . hide caption 240 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak hasidic jewish men take part in a " social distancing " minyan in new york on march 17 . hide caption 241 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a patient in a biocontainment unit is carried on a stretcher in rome on march 17 . hide caption 242 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a pedestrian walks a dog through a quiet street in new york on march 17 . hide caption 243 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people gather to collect free face masks in new delhi on march 17 . hide caption 244 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak dermot hickey , left , and phillip vega ask a pedestrian in new york to take their picture on a thinly trafficked fifth avenue on march 17 . many streets across the world are much more bare as people distance themselves from others . in the united states , the white house advised people not to gather in groups of more than 10 . hide caption 245 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak students at the attarkiah islamic school wear face masks during a ceremony in thailand ' s southern province of narathiwat on march 17 . hide caption 246 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people wait outside a woolworths store in sunbury , australia on march 17 . australian supermarket chains announced special shopping hours for the elderly and people with disabilities so that they can shop in less crowded aisles . hide caption 247 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a member of spain ' s military emergencies unit carries out a general disinfection at the malaga airport on march 16 . hide caption 248 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak displaced families near atme , syria , attend a workshop aimed at spreading awareness about the coronavirus . hide caption 249 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak french president emmanuel macron is seen on a screen in paris as he announces new coronavirus containment measures on march 16 . france has been put on lockdown , and all nonessential outings are outlawed and can draw a fine of up to €135 ( $148 ) . macron also promised to support french businesses by guaranteeing €300 billion worth of loans and suspending rent and utility bills owed by small companies . hide caption 250 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a police officer checks the temperatures of bus passengers at a checkpoint in manila , philippines , on march 16 . hide caption 251 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak flowers are stored prior to their destruction at a flower auction in aalsmeer , netherlands , on march 16 . lower demand due to the coronavirus outbreak is threatening the dutch horticultural sector , forcing the destruction of products . hide caption 252 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak body temperatures are scanned as people enter the buddhist temple wat pho in bangkok , thailand , on march 13 . hide caption 253 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak two nuns greet neighbors from their balcony in turin , italy , on sunday , march 15 . hide caption 254 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak pope francis , inside the church of san marcello in rome ' s city center , prays at a famous crucifix that believers claim helped to save romans from the plague in 1522 . hide caption 255 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak passengers wait for their flights at marrakesh airport in morocco on march 15 . hide caption 256 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak us vice president mike pence takes a question during a white house briefing about the coronavirus on march 15 . hide caption 257 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a sea world employee sprays disinfectant in jakarta , indonesia , on saturday , march 14 . hide caption 258 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people wait in line to go through customs at dallas / fort worth international airport on march 14 . travelers returning from europe say they were being made to wait for hours at us airports , often in close quarters , as personnel screened them for the coronavirus . hide caption 259 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak hundreds of people lined up to enter a costco in novato , california , on march 14 . many people have been stocking up on food , toilet paper and other items . as a response to panic buying , retailers in the united states and canada have started limiting the number of toilet paper that customers can buy in one trip . hide caption 260 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a member of the white house physician ' s office takes a media member ' s temperature in the white house briefing room on march 14 . it was ahead of a news conference with president donald trump and vice president mike pence . hide caption 261 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a nurse in cremona , italy , takes a moment in this heartbreaking photo posted to instagram by photographer paolo miranda . italy ' s health care system has been severely tested by the coronavirus pandemic . hide caption 262 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak reporters in arlington , virginia , sit approximately 4 feet apart during a briefing by marine corps gen . kenneth f . mckenzie on march 13 . hide caption 263 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people walk past a closed broadway theater on march 13 after new york canceled all gatherings over 500 people . hide caption 264 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a costco customer stands by two shopping carts in richmond , california , on march 13 . hide caption 265 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a teacher works in an empty classroom at the pompeu fabra university in barcelona , spain . hide caption 266 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman looks at an empty bread aisle in antwerp , belgium , on march 13 . hide caption 267 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak employees of the greek parliament wear plastic gloves ahead of the swearing - in ceremony for greek president katerina sakellaropoulou . hide caption 268 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a motorcyclist drives through disinfectant sprayed in jammu , india , on march 13 . hide caption 269 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak workers prepare to construct an additional building on a hospital on the outskirts of moscow . hide caption 270 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak paul boyer , head equipment manager of the nhl ' s detroit red wings , wheels out equipment bags in washington on march 12 . the nhl is among the sports leagues that have suspended their seasons . hide caption 271 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak students leave glacier peak high school in snohomish , washington , on march 12 . beginning the following day , schools in the snohomish school district planned to be closed through april 24 . hide caption 272 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak an uber eats delivery biker stands at a deserted piazza di spagna in rome . hide caption 273 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people at a railway station in seoul , south korea , watch a live broadcast of us president donald trump on march 12 . trump announced that , in an effort to slow the spread of the coronavirus , he would sharply restrict travel from more than two dozen european countries . hide caption 274 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak workers in protective suits disinfect istanbul ' s dolmabahce palace on march 11 . hide caption 275 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a person wearing a face mask walks outside of a shopping mall in beijing on march 11 . hide caption 276 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak police officers restrain the relative of an inmate outside the sant ' anna jail in modena , italy , on march 9 . riots broke out in several italian jails after visits were suspended to curb the spread of the coronavirus . hide caption 277 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak medical staff in wuhan , china , celebrate after all coronavirus patients were discharged from a temporary hospital on march 9 . hide caption 278 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak traders work on the floor of the new york stock exchange on march 9 . stocks plummeted as coronavirus worries and an oil price race to the bottom weighed on global financial markets . hide caption 279 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak rescuers search for victims at the site of a collapsed hotel in quanzhou , china , on march 8 . the hotel was being used as a coronavirus quarantine center . hide caption 280 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak the grand princess cruise ship , carrying at least 21 people who tested positive for coronavirus , is seen off the coast of san francisco on march 8 . the ship was being held at sea . hide caption 281 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak sumo wrestlers attend a tournament in osaka , japan , that was being held behind closed doors because of the coronavirus outbreak . hide caption 282 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a couple rides a bicycle at a park in seoul , south korea , on march 7 . hide caption 283 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a volunteer from blue sky rescue uses fumigation equipment to disinfect a residential compound in beijing on march 5 . hide caption 284 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak airmen from the california national guard drop coronavirus testing kits down to the grand princess cruise ship off the coast of california on march 5 . hide caption 285 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak municipal workers are seen at the kaaba , inside mecca ' s grand mosque . saudi arabia emptied islam ' s holiest site for sterilization over coronavirus fears , an unprecedented move after the kingdom suspended the year - round umrah pilgrimage . hide caption 286 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak passengers react as a worker wearing a protective suit disinfects the departure area of a railway station in hefei , china , on march 4 . hide caption 287 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak teachers at the nagoya international school in japan conduct an online class for students staying at home as a precaution against the spread of coronavirus . hide caption 288 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak soldiers spray disinfectant throughout a shopping street in seoul . hide caption 289 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a muslim worshipper attends a mass prayer against coronavirus in dakar , senegal , on march 4 . it was after cases were confirmed in the country . hide caption 290 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people wear face masks in new york ' s times square on march 3 . new york reported its first case of coronavirus two days earlier . hide caption 291 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a security guard stands on the shibuya sky observation deck in tokyo on march 3 . hide caption 292 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak us president donald trump , flanked by vice president mike pence , left , and health and human services secretary alex azar , speaks during a meeting with pharmaceutical executives and the white house coronavirus task force on march 2 . throughout the meeting , trump was hyperfocused on pressing industry leaders in the room for a timeline for a coronavirus vaccine and treatment . but experts at the table - - from the administration and the pharmaceutical industry - - repeatedly emphasized that a vaccine can ' t be rushed to market before it ' s been declared safe for the public . hide caption 293 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak medical staff stand outside a hospital in daegu , south korea , on march 1 . hide caption 294 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak health care workers transfer a patient at the life care center in kirkland , washington , on march 1 . the long - term care facility is linked to confirmed coronavirus cases . hide caption 295 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak british prime minister boris johnson visits a london laboratory of the public health england national infection service . hide caption 296 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak tomoyuki sugano , a professional baseball player on the yomiuri giants , throws a pitch in an empty tokyo dome during a preseason game on february 29 . fans have been barred from preseason games to prevent the spread of the coronavirus . hide caption 297 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak commuters wearing masks make their way to work during morning rush hour at the shinagawa train station in tokyo on february 28 . hide caption 298 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak medical staff transport a coronavirus patient within the red cross hospital in wuhan on february 28 . hide caption 299 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak inter milan plays ludogorets in an empty soccer stadium in milan , italy , on february 27 . the match was ordered to be played behind closed doors as italian authorities continue to grapple with the coronavirus outbreak . hide caption 300 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a bank clerk disinfects banknotes in china ' s sichuan province on february 26 . hide caption 301 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a child wearing a protective face mask rides on a scooter in an empty area in beijing . hide caption 302 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a catholic devotee wears a face mask as he is sprinkled with ash during ash wednesday services in paranaque , philippines , on february 26 . hide caption 303 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people disinfect qom ' s masumeh shrine in tehran , iran , on february 25 . hide caption 304 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a worker in daegu stacks plastic buckets containing medical waste from coronavirus patients on february 24 . hide caption 305 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak paramedics carry a stretcher off an ambulance in hong kong on february 23 . hide caption 306 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people attend a professional soccer match in kobe , japan , on february 23 . to help stop the spread of the novel coronavirus , the soccer club vissel kobe told fans not to sing , chant or wave flags in the season opener against yokohama fc . hide caption 307 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a team of volunteers disinfects a pedestrian bridge in bangkok , thailand . hide caption 308 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a man rides his bike in beijing on february 23 . hide caption 309 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak hospital personnel in codogno , italy , carry new beds inside the hospital on february 21 . the hospital is hosting some people who have been diagnosed with the novel coronavirus . hide caption 310 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak doctors look at a ct scan of a lung at a hospital in xiaogan , china , on february 20 . hide caption 311 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a sales clerk wears a mask as she waits for customers at a hat shop in beijing on february 18 . small companies that help drive china ' s economy are worried about how much damage the coronavirus outbreak will cause to business . hide caption 312 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak buses carrying american passengers arrive at the haneda airport in tokyo on february 17 . the passengers were leaving the quarantined diamond princess cruise ship to be repatriated to the united states . hide caption 313 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a medical worker rests at the isolation ward of the red cross hospital in wuhan on february 16 . hide caption 314 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak authorities watch as the westerdam cruise ship approaches a port in sihanoukville , cambodia , on february 13 . despite having no confirmed cases of coronavirus on board , the westerdam was refused port by four other asian countries before being allowed to dock in cambodia . hide caption 315 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a worker has his temperature checked on a shuttered commercial street in beijing on february 12 . hide caption 316 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak beds are made in the wuhan sports center , which has been converted into a temporary hospital . hide caption 317 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a child rides a scooter past a police officer wearing protective gear outside the hong mei house in hong kong on february 11 . more than 100 people evacuated the housing block after four residents in two different apartments tested positive for the coronavirus . hide caption 318 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak relatives of quarantined passengers wave at the diamond princess cruise ship as it leaves a port in yokohama , japan , to dump wastewater and generate potable water . dozens of people on the ship were infected with coronavirus . hide caption 319 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak the deneway branch of the county oak medical centre is closed amid coronavirus fears in brighton , england , on february 11 . several locations in and around brighton were quarantined after a man linked to several coronavirus cases in the united kingdom came into contact with health - care workers and members of the public . hide caption 320 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a police officer , left , wears protective gear as he guards a cordon at the hong mei house in hong kong on february 11 . hide caption 321 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a worker wears a protective suit as he waits to screen people entering an office building in beijing on february 10 . china ' s workforce is slowly coming back to work after the coronavirus outbreak forced many parts of the country to extend the lunar new year holiday by more than a week . hide caption 322 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak chinese president xi jinping has his temperature checked during an appearance in beijing on february 10 . hide caption 323 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak photojournalists wearing face masks take photos of a bus carrying passengers after they disembarked from the world dream cruise ship in hong kong on february 9 . more than 5 , 300 people were quarantined on two cruise ships off hong kong and japan . hide caption 324 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people participating in a lunar new year parade in new york city hold signs reading , " wuhan stay strong ! " on february 9 . hide caption 325 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a shopper walks past empty shelves at a grocery store in hong kong on february 9 . china ' s ministry of commerce encouraged supermarkets and grocery stores to resume operations as the country ' s voluntary or mandatory quarantines began to take an economic toll . hide caption 326 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a worker wearing a protective suit uses a machine to disinfect a business establishment in shanghai , china , on february 9 . hide caption 327 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak workers in protective gear walk near the diamond princess cruise ship docked in yokohama on february 7 . hide caption 328 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people in hong kong attend a vigil february 7 for whistleblower doctor li wenliang . li , 34 , died in wuhan after contracting the virus while treating a patient . hide caption 329 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman grieves while paying tribute to li at li ' s hospital in wuhan on february 7 . hide caption 330 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak the anthem of the seas cruise ship is seen docked at the cape liberty cruise port in bayonne , new jersey , on february 7 . passengers were to be screened for coronavirus as a precaution , an official with the centers for disease control and prevention told cnn . hide caption 331 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a light installation is displayed by striking members of the hospital authority employees alliance and other activists at the hospital authority building in hong kong on february 7 . hide caption 332 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak passengers are seen on the deck of the diamond princess cruise ship , docked at the yokohama port on february 7 . hide caption 333 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak flight attendants wearing face masks make their way through don mueang airport in bangkok on february 7 . hide caption 334 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak workers check sterile medical gloves at a latex - product manufacturer in nanjing , china , on february 6 . hide caption 335 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman wears a protective mask as she shops in a beijing market on february 6 . hide caption 336 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak this aerial photo shows the leishenshan hospital that is being built in wuhan to handle coronavirus patients . hide caption 337 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a passenger shows a note from the world dream cruise ship docked at the kai tak cruise terminal in hong kong on february 5 . hide caption 338 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a mask is seen on a statue in beijing on february 5 . hide caption 339 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak an ambulance stops at a traffic light in front of the grand lisboa hotel in macao . the virus turned china ' s gambling mecca into a ghost town . hide caption 340 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a dog in beijing wears a makeshift mask constructed from a paper cup . hide caption 341 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak striking hospital workers in hong kong demand the closure of the border with mainland china on february 4 . hide caption 342 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak the diamond princess cruise ship sits anchored in quarantine off the port of yokohama on february 4 . it arrived a day earlier with passengers feeling ill . hide caption 343 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a medical worker wearing protective gear waits to take the temperature of people entering princess margaret hospital in hong kong on february 4 . hide caption 344 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak medical workers in protective suits help transfer patients to a newly completed field hospital in wuhan . hide caption 345 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people wearing protective overalls talk outside a wuhan hotel housing people in isolation on february 3 . hide caption 346 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a man stands in front of tv screens broadcasting a speech by hong kong chief executive carrie lam on february 3 . lam said the city would shut almost all border - control points to the mainland . hide caption 347 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a colleague sprays disinfectant on a doctor in wuhan on february 3 . hide caption 348 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak commuters in tokyo walk past an electric board displaying dismal stock prices on february 3 , the first business day after the chinese new year . asia ' s markets recorded their worst day in years as investors finally got a chance to react to the worsening coronavirus outbreak . hide caption 349 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak medical workers move a coronavirus patient into an isolation ward at the second people ' s hospital in fuyang , china , on february 1 . hide caption 350 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak children wear plastic bottles as makeshift masks while waiting to check in to a flight at the beijing capital airport on january 30 . hide caption 351 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak passengers in hong kong wear protective masks as they wait to board a train at lo wu station , near the mainland border , on january 30 . hide caption 352 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a volunteer wearing protective clothing disinfects a street in qingdao , china , on january 29 . hide caption 353 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak nanning residents line up to buy face masks from a medical appliance store on january 29 . hide caption 354 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak lyu jun , left , a member of a medical team leaving for wuhan , says goodbye to a loved one in urumqi , china , on january 28 . hide caption 355 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a charter flight from wuhan arrives at an airport in anchorage , alaska , on january 28 . the us government chartered the plane to bring home us citizens and diplomats from the american consulate in wuhan . hide caption 356 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak south korean president moon jae - in wears a mask to inspect the national medical center in seoul on january 28 . hide caption 357 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak hong kong chief executive carrie lam , center , attends a news conference in hong kong on january 28 . lam said china will stop individual travelers to hong kong while closing some border checkpoints and restricting flights and train services from the mainland . hide caption 358 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak workers at an airport in novosibirsk , russia , check the temperatures of passengers who arrived from beijing on january 28 . hide caption 359 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak us health and human services secretary alex azar speaks during a news conference about the american public - health response . hide caption 360 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak two residents walk in an empty park in wuhan on january 27 . the city remained on lockdown for a fourth day . hide caption 361 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a person wears a protective mask , goggles and coat as he stands in a nearly empty street in beijing on january 26 . hide caption 362 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak medical staff members bring a patient to the wuhan red cross hospital on january 25 . hide caption 363 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people wear protective masks as they walk under lunar new year decorations in beijing on january 25 . hide caption 364 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak construction workers in wuhan begin to work on a special hospital to deal with the outbreak on january 24 . hide caption 365 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak dr . allison arwady , commissioner of the chicago department of public health , speaks to reporters on january 24 about a patient in chicago who had been diagnosed with the coronavirus . the patient was the second in the united states to be diagnosed with the illness . hide caption 366 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a couple kisses goodbye as they travel for the lunar new year holiday in beijing on january 24 . hide caption 367 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak workers manufacture protective face masks at a factory in china ' s hubei province on january 23 . hide caption 368 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak shoppers wear masks in a wuhan market on january 23 . hide caption 369 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak passengers are checked by a thermography device at an airport in osaka , japan , on january 23 . hide caption 370 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people wear masks while shopping for vegetables in wuhan on january 23 . hide caption 371 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a militia member checks the body temperature of a driver in wuhan on january 23 . hide caption 372 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak passengers wear masks as they arrive at the ninoy aquino international airport in manila , philippines , on january 23 . hide caption 373 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a customer holds boxes of particulate respirators at a pharmacy in hong kong on january 23 . hide caption 374 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak passengers wear masks at the high - speed train station in hong kong on january 23 . hide caption 375 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak a woman rides an electric bicycle in wuhan on january 22 . hide caption 376 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people in guangzhou , china , wear protective masks on january 22 . hide caption 377 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak people go through a checkpoint in guangzhou on january 22 . hide caption 378 of 380photos : the novel coronavirus outbreak medical staff of wuhan ' s union hospital attend a gathering on january 22 . hide caption 379 of 380
__label__no_relevant cambodia arrests eight for ' sos obama ' stunt cambodia arrests eight for ' sos obama ' stuntcambodian police arrested eight people thursday for displaying portraits of us president barack obama next to the word " sos " on their roofs ahead of his much - anticipated visit to the nation . a cambodian girl paints a word ( sos ) under a portrait of us president barack obama on the roof next to the phnom penh international airport on november 14 . cambodian police arrested eight people thursday for displaying portraits of us president barack obama next to the word " sos " on their roofs ahead of his much - anticipated visit to the nation . the stunt was carried out by residents living near phnom penh airport in protest at their threatened eviction , a local human rights group said , in the latest of a slew of bitter land disputes across the impoverished country . the charges against the six women and two men were not immediately clear . " they put obama ' s picture on their roofs and painted ' sos ' next to it , " said national police spokesman kirt chantharith , adding " we are questioning them about their reason for doing this " . obama will become the first sitting us president to visit cambodia when he flies into the capital next week to attend the annual east asia summit with regional leaders . the detentions are the latest example of officials trying to suppress criticism or polish cambodia ' s image ahead of the high - profile event , said ou virak , president of the cambodian centre for human rights . " it says quite a bit about this government and its intention to put on a good face in front of the international community , " he told afp . over 180 families living near the airport have been served with eviction notices to make way for its planned expansion and are demanding fair compensation . forced evictions across the country have displaced thousands of families and prompted a number of protests and violent clashes between residents and armed security forces . in preparation for the summit , city officials have rounded up nearly 100 beggars , drug addicts , sex workers and street vendors to make the capital " beautiful " and " for public order " , municipal hall spokesman long dimanche said . many were sent to social affairs centres - - effective detention centres much criticised by rights campaigners in the past - - while some street children were taken to local charities , he added . 
__label__no_relevant evangelical women are shaping public attitudes about sex work evangelical speaker and activist christine caine wants you to know : “ slavery still exists . ” her organization a - 21 , which aims to abolish “ injustice in the 21st century , ” says human trafficking affects 27 million people each year and is a $150 billion criminal industry . caine is on a mission to eradicate human trafficking . stories of missing women and girls abducted in europe and sold into the sex trade ignited her outrage and motivated her and her husband nick caine , an evangelical pastor , to launch the organization a decade ago . a - 21 now works with law enforcement in 11 countries , including the united states and the united kingdom , and provides safe houses where girls and women can be rehabilitated . caine is quick to tell her audiences the atrocities victims of trafficking have suffered . girls are treated like livestock . they are crammed into shipping containers , some drown at sea ; they are moved forcibly across borders ; locked in apartments and brothels ; made to have abortions , or “ they give birth and the babies are sold into pedophile rings . ” these girls “ are raped twenty maybe thirty times every day , ” says caine . these are gripping stories . and caine ’ s talks engage audiences with gruesome details , and then end on a high note . every girl that is “ saved ” is given a new life . she is made free . this is a classic protestant redemption story . dominating the sex work debatewhile caine speaks about human trafficking , in fact , sex trafficking is her primary target , and with it the sex industry . in this , caine is not alone . she represents a powerful constituency of conservative christians who have formed non - profits of their own , such as faast , wellspring living and concerned women for america , and made alliances with anti - prostitution , secular feminists . it is a surprising affiliation . in the u . s . in particular , secular feminists and conservative women have usually found themselves on opposite sides of social issues . for four decades they have been embattled over women ’ s rights and abortion , as historian marjorie spurill has noted . a21yet evangelical women and anti - trafficking feminists come together on this point : the sale of sex threatens a woman ’ s very humanity . and these groups dominate public discussion of sex work . they have , and continue to influence policy - making and legal enforcement of anti - sex - trafficking laws despite vehement criticisms by sex worker rights activists and their supporters . the public debate about the sex trade finds sex workers unable to seek legal rights and protections on their own terms . sex work , according to anthropologist laura maria agustin , is very often an intelligible response made by women , men and trans - people to social , economic and political realities ; it is strategic equation for many who engage in it . their attitudes about the work vary . they do not always “ like ” their job . they would not deny that it can be dangerous ( though the dangers are magnified when their labour is criminalized ) . yet for anti - trafficking campaigners , sex work is not work — it is exploitation . it is servitude . even rape and sex work become synonymous for anti - trafficking activists because no women could ever choose it . the only solution , they say , is for women to leave the industry : to be saved or reformed . even “ the most seemingly benign ‘rehabilitation ’ programs for sex workers ’ ” writes melissa gira grant in playing the whore : the work of sex work , “ may be described as shelters , but the doors are locked , the phones are monitored , and guests are forbidden… this isn ’ t charity . this is control . ” criticisms of anti - trafficking campaignscritics of these anti - trafficking campaigns have argued that the numbers of trafficked people put forward are inflated , or entirely unsubstantiated . they have asked whether most coerced labour is actually made of up trafficked women and girls , as the campaigns claim . sex - worker rights advocates and scholars have rejected the conflation of sex trafficking and prostitution that animates much anti - trafficking crusades , christian and otherwise . for instance , donna hughes , an activist who helped to inform the bush administration ’ s anti - trafficking legislation , asserted that most of what people see as prostitution is “ actually trafficking because it involves force , fraud and coercion or underage girls . ” in fact , studies of sex workers even in sites of “ sex tourism ” ( notably cambodia ) have not revealed large - scale sex - trafficking rings . but what chance do such studies have in the face of the moral panic promoted by anti - traffickers ? the rhetoric of evangelical anti - trafficking activists , like hughes and caine , is sensationalist . yet it works to incite fear , prurient interest , and a sense of moral righteousness . it is , explains scholar and sex worker rights advocate , jo doezma , evocative of the fabricated “ white slave panic ” of the 19th century that in its own day facilitated draconian measures against prostitutes and other working class women . why , we should ask , has it caught the moral imagination of evangelical communities and , particularly , evangelical women ? why anti - trafficking campaigns attract evangelical womenone historic reason that drew evangelicals generally to the cause of anti - trafficking occurred during the bush administration ( 2001 - 2009 ) . bush established the office of faith - based initiatives , giving conservative christian organizations new access to federal funds for their charitable work . under bush , however , anti - trafficking initiatives also became government policy . the trump administration , too , may be investing in the issue . in the last two decades , the fight against human trafficking has become something of an evangelical mission . one now finds fundraising walks , prayer weekends , bible studies , self - help books and even praise songs devoted to ending global slavery . political factors alone did not draw evangelical women to anti - sex - trafficking crusades , however . so did the crusades ’ rhetoric , which is grounded in values that resonate deeply with conservative protestant sexual morality . a traditional script of sexual and gender roles is foundational to anti - trafficking activism . girls are rehabilitated so that they can occupy their true positions as women , that is , as married women and mothers . this is ultimately what anti - trafficking activists mean by freedom , yvonne sherman argues in other dreams of freedom : religion , sex , and human trafficking . this notion of freedom is entirely commensurate with conservative protestant views of sexuality — initially articulated by the 16th century reformers , martin luther and john calvin , who championed marriage and rejected celibacy and monasticism . following their teachings , conservative protestants have argued that marriage alone is the appropriate sexual relationship , divinely ordained . it is the only one that ensures a proper relationship with god . as such , sexual relations outside of marriage are imagined as bondage . here , then , we see how sex work can readily become sex slavery . but there is more : evangelical women can see themselves as uniquely suited to this particular cause because of its moral tenor . conservative protestant women have a long history of fashioning themselves as guardians of the moral order , more specifically of marriage and the family , a strategy they have employed to legitimate their political and social campaigns , from suffrage and temperance to abortion and same - sex marriage debates . trafficked women are victims in need of saving , evangelical anti - trafficking activists proclaim . the labour that evangelicals undertake to do so is arduous . caine warns : few will be rescued , only one per cent . her assertion , however , is not self - defeating . it compels her audience to action , by playing on an apocalyptic scenario that amplifies the testimonial power of one “ saved ” victim , and so , too , her heroic saviours . could it be that christian anti - sex traffickers , like caine , solicit large evangelical audiences and prop up a legal system that criminalizes sex work because they are better story tellers than their opponents ? sex worker rights activists offer accounts of women , men and trans - people who migrate to new countries ; who turn tricks on the street , acts as escorts , perform sex acts on camera , strip or whatever , to make ends meet ; who fear police crackdowns and try to avoid deportation . christian anti - trafficking activists , instead , paint dramatic pictures of millions of innocent , vulnerable ( even desirable ? ) victims : women and girls under threat of the voracious appetites of a cruel and dehumanizing sex trade , and they need you to rescue them . 
__label__no_relevant australia : reconsider nauru refugee transfers to cambodia ( sydney ) –the australian government should press cambodian authorities to implement key reforms to improve treatment of refugees in cambodia before transferring any refugees from nauru , human rights watch said today . in new human rights watch interviews , asylum seekers and refugees living in cambodia described hardships as a result of the cambodian government ’ s failure to process regular nationality documents and due to poor economic conditions in the country . these include : difficulties in obtaining employment , denial of access to education , substandard access to health services , extortion and corruption by local authorities , and discrimination by officials and the public . refugees said fear of mistreatment by the authorities kept them from speaking out or joining organizations to bring complaints . in september 2014 , australia and cambodia signed a memorandum of understanding whereby refugees will be voluntarily transferred from nauru to cambodia . the australian government will fund temporary accommodation and resettlement services for the refugees for at least one year , and then on a case - by - case basis , and health insurance will be provided for five years . the australian government also committed to provide an additional a$40 million ( us$35 million ) over four years in development assistance for other projects in cambodia as part of the bilateral refugee resettlement agreement . “ the australian government shouldn ’ t make the refugees in nauru suffer further by dumping them in a place unable to adequately resettle or reintegrate them , ” said elaine pearson , australia director . “ cambodia should fix its faulty refugee protection and support services frameworks before accepting any refugees from nauru , and the australian government should insist on that . ” in november , human rights watch interviewed 10 refugees and asylum seekers currently living in cambodia , and consulted with refugee and migrant support organizations , human rights groups , and united nations agencies . most of these refugees and asylum seekers requested human rights watch to withhold their names and nationalities for fear of retribution . cambodia took over issuing refugee status determinations from unhcr in 2009 , and currently hosts 63 refugees . under cambodia ’ s sub - decree no . 224 of 2009 on procedures for recognition as a refugee or providing asylum rights to foreigners in the kingdom of cambodia , the government should issue residency cards and ensure refugees have the same legal rights as legal immigrants . “ human rights watch has discovered that five years on , not a single refugee has ever received a cambodian residence card , let alone citizenship , ” pearson said . citizenship in cambodia requires prior possession of a residence card in order to go through the naturalization process . instead , refugees are issued a prakas , or proclamation , by the ministry of interior that confirms their right to stay in cambodia , but cannot be used for the many official purposes that require presentation of an id card or travel document . refugees have not received international travel documents and generally lack other basic personal documentation , such as family books , which officially specify the membership of families with local authorities , and are necessary to live a normal life in cambodia . “ this piece of paper [prakas] is absolutely useless , ” a refugee told human rights watch . “ to get a job , a driver ’ s license , open a bank account , buy a motorbike , or even receive a wire transfer , you need to show a passport , not this piece of paper . ” cambodia ’ s agreement with australia also states that refugees will be issued with the prakas as well as refugee resident cards and id cards in accordance with sub - decree no . 224 . but so far , current refugees in cambodian have been denied those documents . the agreement further obliges cambodia to provide international travel documents , but based on the experience of implementing its own sub - decree , this seems unlikely . “ after five years cambodia can ’ t even follow its own law on refugees , so australia is , at best , naive to believe this deal will be any different , ” pearson said . “ the australian government only has to look at cambodia ’ s poor human rights record to be wary of its commitments to protect refugees . ” research findings , memorandum of understanding , statements , and recommendationsemploymentthe refugees who spoke to human rights watch all experienced difficulties finding employment , citing as barriers the lack of residency or other identity documents , discrimination , low wages , and lack of khmer language skills . “ i tried to find jobs as a laborer , in hotels and restaurants , but no one would hire me because i don ’ t have proper papers , ” a refugee said . another refugee spoke of how a nongovernmental organization helped him learn baking skills and tried to help him acquire a job at a bakery . however , the pay was so low that it did not cover the costs of rent and transport . “ the job paid $80 per month . but i pay $50 for rent and i live out of town so i would have to get transport there every day , which would have left not enough money for any food . ” extortionseveral asylum seekers and refugees described how cambodian authorities frequently extorted money from them . one refugee said “ i had my bike stolen , but i did not report it . the police ask for $10 to make a police report , and i don ’ t have $10 . ” a refugee said , “ i go to work , i come home and sleep . if i ’ m riding my motorbike , the police will stop me and ask for $5 because i don ’ t have a license . i never go outside more than i have to because i don ’ t have enough money to pay off the cops . ” vietnamese migrants are a particularly vulnerable population in cambodia . cambodian and international human rights advocates told human rights watch that many vietnamese live in fear of cambodian or vietnamese authorities apprehending them and sending them back to vietnam . because of their extreme insecurity , no vietnamese refugee or asylum - seeker agreed to be interviewed by human rights watch . however , groups assisting vietnamese communities confirmed that vietnamese lacking proper id documents commonly faced extortion and bribery from local authorities . discriminationrefugees told human rights watch that they were targets of discrimination in cambodia and described how they often paid inflated prices for food , work equipment , and basic necessities because they were not cambodian . “ there is a foreigner price and a local price , ” said a refugee . “ but we can ’ t afford the foreigner price . ” a sri lankan refugee said that people called him a terrorist and used offensive words because he is an ethnic tamil . dire financial situationasylum seekers and refugees said they worried most about their financial situation . this included refugees who have lived in cambodia for several years . “ the only reason i can stay alive is because jrs [jesuit refugee service] helps me by loaning me money , ” said a refugee said . “ but i struggle to survive here . ” a refugee who had passed through thailand on the way to cambodia said , “ i had a much better life in thailand except for the documentation . i would much prefer to stay there than cambodia . here it is expensive and i can ’ t earn much . ” the same refugee gave this advice to refugees on nauru : “ this is a corrupt country . you will not find jobs . we have been here more than two years and we have no money and not enough to eat . it ’ s better to wait in nauru . it is a very , very bad life here in cambodia . there is no future . we can survive , but that ’ s all . ” freedom of expressionrefugees said they are afraid to complain to the authorities about any mistreatment they suffered . one refugee told human rights watch : “ if asylum seekers or refugees were to protest anything about the way in which they are being treated , they are taking a big risk , because there is really no guarantee the authorities would not simply tear up the asylum seeker document or refugee document and the protester would be deported . ” a refugee who had participated in an asean civil society conference when his asylum claim was under consideration , said that following the meeting , cambodian authorities put him under surveillance . “ police followed me home and then followed me around for several days , ” he said . “ i was questioned and told by immigration officials that this was a warning and i should stay away from politics or it will have a negative impact on my asylum application . i was scared . ” educationunder cambodian law , all children have the right to go to school for at least nine years free of charge . school authorities have refused to allow many refugee children , lacking residency or other basic personal identity documents , to attend state schools . some organizations working with stateless people said that teachers also sometimes expected bribes to accept foreign children in state schools . even cambodian students have had to pay bribes to top up teachers ’ pay in cambodian schools . healththe memorandum of understanding between australia and cambodia states that health insurance provided to those transferred from nauru should be “ commensurate with local community standards . ” the current health insurance plan afforded to refugees is equivalent to what many cambodians have , yet it is inadequate , and has many exemptions . for instance , dental care , various optical conditions and many chronic illnesses requiring treatment lasting more than three months are generally not covered . certain routine preventative medicine treatments , such as vaccinations , are also exempt . health facilities are few in cambodia and are often located far from where refugees live . as a result , refugees said they often pay for medical care out of their own meager wages or had to have money wired to them from their families or friends overseas because the health insurance is so inadequate . one refugee said , “ i had to wait more than two months for medication for my skin disorder . by the time the medicine came , the drugs had already expired . ” mental health services are sorely lacking in cambodia with no government agency providing such care . only a few nongovernmental organizations provide mental health services . for refugees from nauru who have faced multiple traumas as a result of persecution in their home countries , perilous sea journeys , and lengthy periods in detention on nauru , mental health services may be a priority . memorandum of understandingthe agreement between australia and cambodia provides that resettlement services will be provided outside phnom penh after an unspecified period of temporary accommodation in the capital . the experience of asylum seekers and refugees currently living in cambodia suggests that many new refugees will require years of financial and social assistance . given the experiences of groups the government has moved out of phnom penh , this policy risks creating pockets of destitute foreigners stuck in remote areas with substandard conditions . although the agreement has some safeguards , such as stating refugees will not be detained , the cambodian government ’ s record on this score , as discussed below , is not good . services outside phnom penhthe memorandum of understanding states that after one year , services will be provided at a location outside phnom penh . this will essentially force refugees to move away from the country ’ s one urban center , with a large international presence , creating hardship and resettlement difficulties . the cambodian government has a track record of dumping “ undesirables ” – homeless , alleged drug users , street children – in remote locations without adequate services . for instance , in 2009 the authorities forcibly relocated hiv - affected families living in borei keila , a housing development in phnom penh , to substandard housing at tuol sambo , a remote site 25 kilometers from the city . the families were resettled into crude , green metal sheds that are baking hot in the daytime and lack running water and adequate sanitation . risk of arbitrary detentionthe memorandum of understanding states that refugees will not be detained , but will be provided “ temporary accommodation ” with necessary “ security ” prior to being resettled . however , previous agreements by the cambodian government not to detain people have been ignored . for instance , the government claimed that homeless and other people staying at a center in prey speu , outside phnom penh , did so on a voluntarily basis , and cited an august 2008 directive by the social affairs minister forbidding involuntary detention at such locations . however , human rights watch found that between july 2009 and june 2010 , at least 20 sex workers were detained at prey speu against their will for up to a month . human rights monitors in november 2014 told human rights watch that such practices continue at prey speu and elsewhere in the country . sub - decree no . 224the memorandum of understanding refers to sub - decree no . 224 . the sub - decree fails to incorporate the definition of a refugee under the 1951 refugee convention , does not provide sufficient procedural protections to prevent refoulement ( unlawful return of someone to persecution ) , and does not fulfil cambodia ’ s other obligations as a party to the treaty . combined with various exclusion and cessation clauses , the sub - decree provides cambodian authorities numerous and overlapping bases for refusal of refugee status or removal , with insufficient safeguards to protect against the wrongful removal of people with protection concerns . this will allow cambodian officials great leeway to reject and expel asylum seekers , with insufficient procedural protections in place to prevent refoulement . statements from refugees and asylum seekers in cambodiaon residency status : “ as for documents , i only have this one from the ministry of interior , no id card or family book . so i have trouble doing things like opening a bank account , receiving a wire transfer , owning a motorbike , or even getting a sim [cell phone] card , nor can i own or operate a business or get married . ” on extortion : “ we have to pay bribes just to be able to sell food [self - employed bread seller] . cambodians also face this problem . ” “ in their dealings with me , the cambodian authorities have been greedy and not always civil . immigration sometimes accused me of playing games with them , of being a criminal trying to beat the system . ” on discrimination : “ the main problem in cambodia is discrimination and mistreatment based on financial status , but it is also worse if you are refugee with the wrong skin color and not the right religion . money will buy you everything , but if you haven ’ t got money , then you can ’ t protect yourself and can ’ t protest about discrimination and mistreatment . ” on freedom of expression : “ i keep my head down . i stay away from any protests because i don ’ t want it to cause problems for me . ” “ we believe that because the cambodian government doesn ’ t respect the rights of cambodians , it also will not respect the rights of asylum seekers and refugees . we know from the newspapers that the government threatens those who complain about their rights being violated , and that makes us afraid . all these recent arrests make us feel we cannot do or say anything that might make the authorities angry at us . ” “ so , although someone with refugee status might be able to live safely forever in cambodia , they are safe only if they keep their mouths shut and don ’ t do anything the authorities would consider trouble . our low living standards are not just a problem for everyday life , but because of the fact that in cambodia , everything depends on money . if you have money , you can buy anything , but without it , you can ’ t have what you are supposed to have as a right , which means you don ’ t have the rights of an asylum seeker or a refugee . ” recommendationsaustralia should ensure the following recommendations are in effect before transferring refugees from nauru to cambodia . in the meantime , australia should support “ regional burden - sharing ” by accepting refugees from nauru for resettlement . human rights watch urges the australian government to : press the cambodian government to immediately provide all recognized refugees in cambodia with ordinary cambodian residency and other common identity documents ; establish a transparent monitoring mechanism for both nauru transferees and existing refugees in cambodia ; establish a clear and simple process for refugees to be able to report abuses safely and confidentially ; lift the requirement in the memorandum of understanding that refugees transferred from nauru must accept settlement services outside phnom penh ; provide more details about the extent of health services , including mental health services , education and other social services , to be provided to refugees under the agreement ; andraise concerns publicly and privately about cambodia ’ s human rights record . human rights watch urges the cambodian government to : immediately issue residency and other common identity documents to recognized refugees ; 
__label__no_relevant american brian naswall gets 10 years for buying child sex in cambodia an american aviation executive has been sentenced to a decade in jail in cambodia for sexually abusing girls as young as five . brian naswall , the founder and ceo of aero cambodia , was arrested last year , reportedly in the act of abusing three underage girls , and was accused by nine victims between the ages of five and 16 . naswall , 53 , denied the charges during his trial in phnom penh ' s municipal court and claimed the case was fabricated , but was today found guilty of engaging in child prostitution . brian naswall , founder of aerocambodia , arrives at the municipal court in phnom penh , cambodianaswall ( bottom right ) , walks from a prison van before he was sentenced in phnom penh ' s municipal courtnaswall , pictured in a facebook photo , described himself online as a ' part - time pilot and world traveler ' action pour les enfants ( aple ) , a non - governmental organization that hunts down suspected foreign pedophiles in cambodia , said naswall was arrested by tonle basac police in may 2015 . at the time , the organization claimed , he was engaging in sex with a 12 - year - old girl in the presence of two other underage girls . aple claimed naswall lured the girls to a quiet place surrounding koh pich island and sexually abused them with the promise to pay them up to $20 each . after he was arrested , cambodia ' s anti - human trafficking and juvenile protection department took over the investigation . aple said it helped police to identify more victims . ' six other victims had disclosed that they had been sexually exploited on different occasions , ' the organization said in a statement released after the sentencing . ' finally , police had concluded a total of nine victims . ' naswall , 53 , was sentenced to 10 years in prison and ordered to pay $12 , 000 in compensation to his victimsaple claimed naswall was caught in the act of abusing three underage girls when he was arrestednaswall , whose airline offered sightseeing tours of cambodia , poses in front of a small aircraftin its ruling , phnom penh ' s municipal court sentenced naswall - who was wearing an orange prison jumpsuit and looked slimmer compared to photos on his facebook profile - to 10 years in jail . as he was led into court by police officers he gave a thumb ' s up to photographers . naswall , whose company offers joyrides or sightseeing tours in small aircraft for as little as $50 per person , must also pay 48 million cambodian riel ( approximately $12 , 000 ) in compensation , which will be split among eight of his victims . a member of his legal team said he would appeal the ruling . vando khoem , the program director of aple , called for naswall to be deported after he serves his sentence . ' i applaud the decision of the court . however , i express my heartfelt disappointment that the court didn ’ t order his deportation , ' khoem said . ' without deportation , he would exploit an opportunity to be here to prey on cambodian children . deportation should be made automatically . ' on his linkedin profile , naswall described himself as a pilot and world traveler . he claimed to have previously worked as a locomotive engineer who operated trains in oregon , washington , montana , california and idaho in the us , british columbia in canada , thailand , cambodia and mexico . naswall ' s sentence is the latest effort by officials in the impoverished nation in southeast asia to punish pedophiles who travel from abroad and prey on children . cambodia ' s grim reputation as a child sex hub attracted global attention in 2002 when british glam rocker and serial pedophile gary glitter was deported over suspected sexual offences . the country launched a drive in 2003 to shed its reputation as a haven for foreign pedophiles . dozens of foreigners have since been prosecuted for child sex crimes but there are still wide gaps in policing . 
__label__no_relevant sihanoukville , cambodian magnet for chinese casinos , loses its pull , leaving thousands owed money and unable to move on 
__label__relevant alcohol a risk for sex workers , study finds alcohol a risk for sex workers , study findsboth cambodian women engaging in sex work and their male clients engage in unhealthy alcohol use , according to the findings of a soon - to - be - published study . led by dr marie - claude couture of the university of san francisco , a team of researchers administered a questionnaire to 100 women in preah sihanouk province who reported having had sex in the preceding three months in return for money , gifts or goods . another questionnaire was administered to 100 self - identified clients . participants were asked to rate their alcohol intake , and the following morning they were invited to have their blood tested for hiv positivity as well as a biomarker called phosphatidylethanol ( peth ) . peth is useful for detecting heavy drinking patterns because it stays in the blood for two to three weeks after a bout of heavy drinking , according to the report . the results showed that 60 per cent of women and 42 per cent of men had a level of peth in their blood that indicates “ unhealthy alcohol consumption ” . the study also found that men tended to under - report their alcohol use . the report defines unhealthy alcohol use as including “ risky drinking and alcohol - use disorders ” . the majority of women ( 71 per cent ) participating in the study reported that their sex work took place in the course of their jobs as entertainment workers , while the remainder ’ s took place on a freelance basis or in brothels . nine per cent of all women surveyed tested hiv positive , nationwide hiv prevalence is currently 1 . 6 per cent . professor ian lubek , who has conducted extensive research on entertainment workers , alcohol and sex in cambodia said that in his experience , workers and clients are far more likely to engage in risky behaviour when they have been drinking . “ we find that when entertainment workers drink alcohol , condom use goes down , ” he said . he attributes the high rates of hiv infections among cambodia ’ s entertainment workers in part to the criminalisation of brothels in 2008 . “ when brothels closed , the workers went underground and men still sought out sex , some of whom found it with beer sellers . . . before 2008 , beer sellers had paid sex 2 . 7 times a month when they had to make ends meet , ” he said , adding that in the following years , those numbers increased significantly . he also called for higher wages for entertainment workers , insisting that if their salaries were doubled to “ living ” wages , they would less frequently find themselves caught short at the end of the month . however , the director of health ngo khana , choub sok chamreun , said that calling for higher salaries did not address an immediate need for education of entertainment workers . “ if the company who employs these people can increase their salary , we ’ re very happy . but in the meantime , we need to give them a proper message about how they can keep themselves safe , ” chamreun said . one 32 - year - old beer seller who asked not to be named said yesterday that while she refrains from engaging in sex with clients or becoming intoxicated on the job , she knew of colleagues that did both . “ i heard of some beer girls getting fully drunk with her customers . . . i could not do that , ” she said . “ it ’ s high risk for her to have sex without protection . ” 
__label__no_relevant how women in poverty are supplying america ’ s market for hair phnom penh , cambodia — pheng sreyvy wears a hooded sweatshirt as she handwashes her children ’ s clothing in the sweltering cambodian sun . the hair that peeks out from under the hood is split and uneven . on closer examination , her roots are copper but fade to black as the strands reach her neck . sreyvy , 39 , explains that her hair used to be down to her waist . that was before hair traders offered her $15 to sell it . “ i feel regret for cutting my hair off . i don ’ t feel made up , ” she told nbc news while working underneath her makeshift home on wooden stilts . her 13 - month - old son , nau , cried faintly in a hammock nearby . sreyvy lives in the ponhea leu district of cambodia . the community is about 90 minutes outside of phnom penh , the country ’ s capital . the province is quiet and dusty with gutters filled with mud , water , flies and garbage . barefoot toddlers play with stray dogs and crowing roosters near a barren well . the scene here is a dramatic contrast from phnom penh ’ s orussey market , a massive , loud arena crowded with people , hammocks , fruit , vegetables , candy , roasted pigs , bright fabrics , gold - plated jewelry — and rows upon rows of long , raw cambodian hair . local actresses and other women buy hair from vendor keo vorleak ’ s stall at orussey almost daily , vorleak said . also a hairdresser , vorleak manages several cubicle - like salons — all of which were bustling with cambodian women from phnom penh on one saturday afternoon in july . they were getting their hair washed and trimmed before having the rows of hair hanging along the walls attached to their heads by vorleak and her staff . sreyvy ’ s hair might well have ended up displayed in a loose bundle on that wall , woven into the hair of a woman at the market or sewn into a wig resting atop an american woman ’ s head in new york city . cambodian hair has particular appeal to black women , said janice wilson , an african american woman who ran a business collecting hair from women in cambodia that she then sold in the united states and internationally . “ there is a variety of patterns and it varies from straight to tightly coiled , ” wilson said , adding that she stressed the variety in texture as compared to hair from india — which leads the world in exporting human hair and where the hair is often donated as a religious practice . in cambodia , the international trade can start at markets like orussey , where hair is sold to international customers at prices starting at $120 for 16 inches of hair on a weft or $50 for raw loose hair in a bundle . “ they put it in their suitcase and go , ” vorleak said . from phnom penh , the chopped tresses then end up for sale as hair extensions , weaves and wigs in a global market . the international resale value for hair claiming to be raw cambodian hair can start as low as $100 for 12 inches of loose hair in a bundle to over $300 for longer lengths , also in a bundle . that ’ s a far cry from the amount women like sreyvy receive for their hair . she said hair traders frequent the village looking to cut and buy long hair from women . sreyvy has sold her hair three times since 2012 : the first time she was living under a tent in phnom penh . she sold it again six months ago to buy her son medicine . “ he was sick with a fever and cough , ” she said . 
__label__no_relevant first islamic funeral for sex worker in bangladesh clerics don ’ t normally celebrate funerals for sex workers , usually buried in unmarked graves or dumped like rubbish in rivers . hamida begum , who died aged 65 , began working at the daulatdia brothel when she was 12 . for her daughter laxmi , also a sex worker , her mother was treated liked a human being . dhaka ( asianews / agencies ) – for the first time in the history of bangladesh , a muslim cleric celebrated the funeral of a sex worker . hamida begum passed away last week at the age of 65 . she worked at the daulatdia brothel , 250 kilometres from dhaka , starting at the age of 12 . “ i never dreamt that she would get such an honourable farewell , ” said hamida ' s daughter laxmi , who followed her mother into the trade . before hamida , sex workers would be laid to rest without funeral rites led by a religious leader . her funeral was made possible by pressure from a coalition of sex workers and the intervention of goalondo police chief ashiqur rahman , who convinced local clerics . " the imam was initially reluctant to lead the prayers , ” said chief rahman . “ but we asked him whether islam forbids anyone from taking part in the janaza ( funeral prayers ) of a sex worker . he had no answer . ” in muslim majority in bangladesh , prostitution is legal . however , muslim spiritual leaders view sex workers , whether they do it out of necessity or under duress , as “ immoral ” . for this reason , sex workers are usually buried in unmarked graves or dumped into rivers . the legal age for sex work is 18 and sex workers must have a certificate as proof of their age . however , many are underage , exploited by human traffickers . the brothel in daulatdia is one of the country ’ s 12 legal sex establishments . it is home to more than 1 , 200 women and girls , and their children , often paying exorbitant rents . set up during the colonial era , it is considered the largest in the world , catering to about 5 , 000 clients a day . more than 200 mourners attended hamida ’ s funeral , along with her daughter laxmi and son mukul seikh , whilst twice as many went to the post - funeral feast and prayer . “ it was an unprecedented scene , ” rahman said . " people waited until late in the night to join the prayers . the eyes of sex workers welled up with tears . ” 
__label__no_relevant city wants homeless gone a young boy carries rubbish on his back in chroy changvar district last week . a letter from the phnom penh municipality ordered that all homeless people be removed from the streets for their own safety . hong meneacity wants homeless gonephnom penh city hall wants to sweep the capital ’ s streets clean of beggars , street kids and the homeless . in a directive issued yesterday , the municipality told district officials to remove homeless people from public areas , using the rationale that such city dwellers are especially vulnerable to human trafficking . “ the social affairs department and all district governors must control and prevent an influx of [beggars and homeless] to the city , ” seng ratanak , phnom penh ’ s deputy governor , said . “ they are at risk of labour exploitation and human trafficking , and we need public order , ” he said . ratanak advised officials to cooperate with nongovernmental organisations to collect and educate homeless people , street children , beggars , street newspaper and flower sellers , and disabled people . ban vutha , a deputy director at the municipal department of social affairs , said that since all of the government - funded city shelters have been closed , “ collected ” beggars and homeless people have to be sent to their families or an ngo for shelter . “ they cannot stay at the department for a long time , so we have to integrate them into provinces … after we save them , ” he said . at the end of last month , local ngos mith samlanh and pour un sourire d ’ enfant both signed a memorandum of understanding with the government to assist street kids . neither ngo was aware of the directive sent out yesterday or the initiative to “ collect ” homeless people . “ i don ’ t think this should be about gathering street kids . nobody can accommodate them all today , ” ouk sovan , deputy programs director at pse , said . “ the first approach needs to be to build the trust of the children . ” chanta , a 32 - year - old beggar , told the post that she had been picked up and educated by officials three years ago , and was given money for transportation back to her hometown . but she said the money wouldn ’ t cover the fare for her and her now - 7 - year - old daughter , and that after her husband died she could no longer support herself and daughter as a housekeeper in banteay meanchey . “ i know i can ’ t stay at the centre or depend on them to support me , so i became a beggar again … for some money to raise my little girl , ” she said . additional reporting by laignee barron
__label__no_relevant new year celebrations to be held all over kingdom new year celebrations to be held all over kingdomsince the beginning of the month , main streets in cities across the kingdom have been colourfully decorated to welcome khmer new year , or sankranta chhnam thmei . usually , a national celebration is held in siem reap province to mark the occasion , but this year is different ; instead , khmer new year celebrations will be spread out as various public and private institutions hold their own celebrations . bun veasna , who works as an assistant at the national committee for organising national and international festivals , sits in his office as he talks on the phone . he says that the national angkor sankranta celebration , usually held in siem reap province , will not be carried out this year . instead , the government instructed localised celebrations to make it easier for millions looking to be close to their families in their respective provinces . “ prime minister hun sen recommended that our committee inform ministries and provincial departments to hold their own sankranta celebration , ” mr veasna says . “ so that ’ s why we are seeing places like schools host their own sankranta displays . ” he notes that khmer new year was celebrated by the ancestors of cambodians , but celebrations were prohibited during pol pot ’ s regime . “ because our country is at peace , prime minister hun sen wants to see his people happy and have the opportunity to gather with family in their respective hometowns , ” mr veasna says . “ the premier also asked people to celebrate our culture in order to make the younger generation learn about their own heritage . ” he says many believe the new year will oust any accumulated problems and usher in prosperity . mr veasna said that is why people clean their homes and offer monks food before they say “ happy new year ” . he adds that the lunar calendar , or maha sangkranta , plays a major role in determining when celebrations would take place . “ new year , or sankranta , is celebrated on the first day , but some people can mark the event before the big day , ” mr veasna says , noting that sankranta is also celebrated abroad by overseas cambodians . three days before new year ’ s eve , houses and pagodas are decorated with flowers , wallpaper , fairy lights , candles , incense sticks and offerings . this year , khmer new year falls on the 14th at about 3 . 12pm . it will mark the end of the buddhist year of 2562 and the start of 2563 , the year of the pig . the holiday period is from the 14 to 16 . during “ maha sangkranta ” , the first day of the new year , people dress up to light candles and burn incense at shrines , where members of each family pay homage to offer thanks for buddha ’ s teachings . for good luck , people wash their faces with holy water in the morning , their torso at noon and their feet before they go to bed . during “ vearak vanabat ” , or the second day , people donate money to the less fortunate . families also attend religious ceremonies for their ancestors at monasteries . on “ vearak loeung sak ” , the third day of khmer new year , buddha statues and elders are washed with scented water . bathing statues symbolises washing away bad deeds . it is also thought to be a kind deed that will bring longevity , good luck , happiness and prosperity in life . by bathing elders , children expect good wishes and advice about life to help with the rest of the year . an annual celebration is also usually held in siem reap , but the union of youth federations of cambodia last week announced that it will not hold the national angkor sankranta celebration this year in siem reap province , instead it would focus on preparing local celebrations . “ uyfc will not prepare the national angkor sankranta in siem reap for 2019 because the working group wants to take this opportunity to prepare for the new year sankranta in every city and province , and also review events that took place last year so that next year ’ s angkor event will be much better , ” it says . chum vuthy , director of the municipal culture and fine arts department , says he and his officials decorated wat phnom so the pagoda becomes attractive to visitors . mr vuthy says this year , the pagoda will host traditional games , a dance and a souvenir market . “ we see some places have been putting up sankranta decorations since the beginning of april , ” he says . “ they will join us in celebration on the day itself . ” he says that even though there will be no angkor sankranta celebration in siem reap , people can still celebrate in their provinces . “ this year , our people do not need to travel to celebrate sankranta because all provinces will hold their own celebration , ” mr vuthy says . “ so they don ’ t have to spend money or spend a long time travelling – this will reduce traffic accidents as well . ” top vong dara , director of prey tob high school in takeo province , says his school will hold a sankranta celebration this year so students and faculty can mingle before the long holiday period . “ this is the first time that we are celebrating sankranta , ” mr vong dara says . “ all students and members of the faculty are happy about this . i will discuss with my staff to see if we can do it again next year . ” touch pheaktra , a student at the high school , says she ’ s excited about welcoming the new year with her classmates . “ this is the first time my school has organised sankranta to welcome the new year , ” ms pheaktra says . “ i can say that i was really happy to hear about it . ” “ my friends and i will very much enjoy this , ” she adds , noting that the celebration at school should be held annually . “ we can play traditional games , dance and partake in other acitivities . ” preah sihanouk provincial hall spokesman kheang phearum says provincial hall is planning big things to attract tourists . “ we celebrate sankranta to welcome the new year every year , but we are doing something bigger this year by hosting the ‘sea sankranta ’ , which is a four day event at the independence beach , ” mr phearum says . he adds that people who will attend sea sankranta in preah sihanouk province will not have to worry about the prices of food and accommodation because costs will not fluctuate . “ we expect sea sankranta to attract more tourists visiting preah sihanouk , ” mr phearum says . “ this is our tradition to organise a lot of leisure activities . ” battambang provincial governor nguon ratanak says last year , tens of thousands of people came to the attend the provincial sankranta celebration . mr ratanak says he is expecting tens of thousands more this year and his province is prepared to be a host . “ this is our second time hosting a sankranta celebration , ” he says . “ we expect more people will come this year . ” “ last year , about 60 , 000 people participated in our four day sankranta celebration , ” mr ranatak says , adding that he expects people from outside of the province to join . regarding safety , the health ministry has called on the public to guard their health while the millions of people are preparing to embark in a mass exodus to celebrate with their families in their home towns . prime minister hun sen earlier this week on facebook wished cambodians a happy khmer new year . in his post , mr hun sen says local authorities need to pay attention to road safety and ensure that both local and international tourists enjoy their time without concern . “ i urge all authorities to to make road safe for traffic and make sure that travellers and foreign tourists find it convenient to pass through border gates and air borders , ” he says . 
__label__no_relevant lip service : taliban assurance of ‘women ’ s rights ’ has big caveat a meeting between afghan representatives and the taliban concluded late monday , resulting in the issuance of a joint statement , including a reference to women ’ s rights . afplip service : taliban assurance of ‘women ’ s rights ’ has big caveatan agreement by the taliban to respect women ’ s rights may seem like a breakthrough , but activists have questioned how the hardline islamists – notorious for stomping on freedoms – will interpret the careful wording . a historic meeting between afghan representatives and the taliban concluded late on monday with the longtime foes issuing a joint statement , including a reference to women ’ s rights . participants at the doha summit agreed that “ assuring women rights in political , social , economic , educational , cultural affairs as per [and] within the islamic framework of islamic values ” , is vital for a durable peace . the wording appears significant , as the taliban are notorious for their longstanding subjugation of women that has included stonings , honour killings and a ban on education . observers have cautioned that the pledge is open to broad interpretation , depending on who is defining the values of islam . “ our rights were completely respected in ‘frames of islamic values ’ under the [taliban] , ” prominent women ’ s rights activist wazhma frogh wrote sarcastically on twitter . “ what an achievement of the doha meeting . going back ! ” manizha qurban , an afghan facebook user , said “ a few ignorant people ” should not be left to interpret islamic values . otherwise “ they will become nightmares , especially for women . we should invite scholars from other islamic countries to interpret the values for us , ” she wrote . the joint statement came at the end of two days of talks between afghan delegates , including a small group of women , and senior taliban officials who are separately negotiating with the us for a peace deal . such a deal would end the us ’ 18 - year involvement in afghanistan in return for various guarantees , but the us insists the taliban first hold comprehensive talks with afghan stakeholders . lip servicethe taliban have paid lip service to women ’ s rights , but always include the caveat of defining these through islam . for instance , in areas of the country now under the taliban – the insurgents essentially control or influence about half of afghanistan – residents report modest changes in the militants ’ hardline stance . in some areas , the taliban do now allow girls to attend primary school , but they are still segregated by gender and the taliban control the curriculum . nonetheless , reports of floggings and the stoning of women , as well as so - called honour killings – where a girl is accused of bringing a home into disrepute – remain common . “ please please don ’ t let the taliban interpret islamic principles for women again . islamic principles for them mean beating and imprisoning women , ” facebook user samira samim wrote . heather barr , the acting co - director of the women ’ s rights division at human rights watch , said it appeared positive that the words “ women ’ s rights ” appeared in the statement . “ but this language about women ’ s rights within the islamic framework is classic taliban rhetoric , ” she said . the taliban “ remain fundamentally opposed to gender equality . so the afghan women at the negotiating table know that they ’ re in for the fight of their life as they try to preserve the afghan constitution ’ s promise of gender equality , ” barr said . in may , taliban spokesman suhail shaheen said “ we do not have any problem with ” women ’ s rights based on islamic values . “ we have a different culture and different values . our values , afghan values , are different from that of western values , ” he said . the joint statement also included a pledge to decrease violence in some cases and to bring civilian casualties to “ zero ” . however , the two - page document made no promise of a ceasefire and afghanistan ’ s war rages on , and reports of horrific civilian casualties pile up on a daily basis . 
__label__relevant siem reap woman arrested over child prostitution a 23 - year - old woman was detained for procuring children for the purposes of prostitution and the exploitation of child labour last month , according to siem reap provincial authorities . suppliedsiem reap woman arrested over child prostitutionthe siem reap provincial court on tuesday detained a 23 - year - old woman at the provincial prison for procuring children for the purposes of prostitution and the exploitation of child labour in may . siem reap provincial court spokesman yin srang told the post on tuesday that court prosecutor keut vannareth had issued a warrant to detain the suspect​ for forcing five girls to be street beggars and sleep with foreigners . srang said provincial anti - human trafficking and juvenile protection officers arrested the suspect on monday while she was staying in siem reap district ’ s svay dangkum commune . siem reap provincial police chief tith narong told the post on tuesday that the woman was detained after a court warrant was issued by siem reap provincial court prosecutor vannareth on monday . “ she was sent to court immediately after the police arrested her , ” he said . narong said after the suspect was arrested , experts questioned her and wrote down her answers in a report to be sent to the provincial court . he said the five children were sent to the provincial department of social affairs to be cared for . “ we only arrested one person , who was the mastermind . nobody else was involved . we have already investigated and questioned her . she was the only one who instructed the five children , ” he said . a local media employee , who wished to remain anonymous , indicated that the five girls were forced to become beggars at phsar chas market , working from 7pm until 3am . the source said that they were told to meet by a wooden bridge near ta prohm hotel and told to pay 10 , 000 riel to 20 , 000 riel ( $2 . 50 to $5 ) for their accommodation . if the children did not do as the suspect asked , the source said , she would lash out at them and force them to take drugs . the source said if any foreigners wanted to sleep with the children , the suspect would act as translator and take commission fees from them . according to article 30 of the law on suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation , a person who , directly or through an intermediary , manages , exploits , operates or finances an establishment of prostitution shall be punished with imprisonment from two to five years . 
__label__no_relevant ‘we have to fight with other gangsters . if we don ’ t fight , they will fight us ’ ‘we have to fight with other gangsters . if we don ’ t fight , they will fight us ’ as the sun set over phnom penh ’ s meanchey district , nate darom sipped palm wine with his friends at a popular picnic spot and talked about meth . they had smoked it that afternoon , as they do most days . the group of twenty - something men are some of phnom penh ’ s estimated hundreds of self - styled gangsters , rag - tag crews who chase thrills from drink , drugs , sex and violence . “ we have to fight with the other gangsters , ” the 29 - year - old explained , in between slugs of the icy drink . “ if we don ’ t fight with them , they will fight us . ” darom ’ s unnamed eight - man gang is one of a number of cherng kang who take part in drunken battles around the capital . most are over trivial disagreements such as perceived insults during snooker games or fights over who gets to take home a particular sex worker . while some are poor , many are from middle class families . some are high school students , while the older ones hold low - paying jobs . they hang out everywhere across the city from the garment factory neighbourhoods of por sen chey to the manicured lawns of diamond island . the problem has been around for decades , especially during the turbulent 1990s , but shows little signs of abating . darom will soon be in his thirties , and works 60 hours a week as a deliveryman . but he has no plans to leave the violent , hedonistic lifestyle that he adopted as a high school student in prey veng province . “ i ’ m not thinking much about the future , or working , or doing anything , ” he said . the cherng kang are no tony soprano . while some dabble in drug dealing or petty theft , most gangs are little more than groups of friends who seek out drug and alcohol fuelled fights against rival cliques . other than drugs and violence , phnom penh ’ s thugs are different to those in the west . they do not have formal structures , nor are they affiliated with one particular group . only some gangs have names , and the leaders are usually the members with the most money . “ they aren ’ t divided between enemy gangs , with one wearing blue and the other wearing red , ” said tong soprach , an academic researcher and social affairs columnist for post khmer , who has studied gang activity in phnom penh and lowell , massachusetts . he blames the violence on boredom and the ready availability of booze . “ there are not many recreational spots for things like sports , but there are a lot of places for drinking , ” he added , pointing out that unscrupulous vendors set up shop near schools to sell beer to teenagers . ngos are not much help , he said , since development projects are usually targeted at the extremely poor , while gang violence is at least as common among the better off . the police force does not keep track of the number of gangsters and does not even have a working definition for the word , according to choun narin , deputy phnom penh municipal police chief in charge of penal crime . but he recognised a need for the police to “ identify those who repeatedly commit acts of violence , and not to confuse them with those that only commit violence once or a few times ” . darom estimated that there are more than 1 , 000 young phnom penh youths who belong to gangs . rows break out in bars and clubs when rival groups clash as well as organised rumbles . poe klah , 25 , a member of darom ’ s gang and from kampong speu , lost a few teeth over one of the most common sources of tension . “ i went to a nice club and had a verbal conflict with the other gangsters because they were trying to get the same girl to bed , so they hit me with a bottle , ” he said as he showed off his damaged grin . in 2012 , the violence extended to the classroom and this inspired high school student and trainee film - maker soth chiev , 20 , to produce a short feature called story of a gangster . this was based on the lives of some of his classmates . “ i asked the kids , and they say gangs will make them cool . they want to fight and be the boss of the school , ” said chiev , who said that his quiet , polite demeanour made the gangsters trust him . one of those adolescents was nhean * , the middle - class son of a car mechanic who had slipped into this dark world of violence . now a 20 - year - old apprentice with a music production company , he spent his nights drinking and getting into fights with other high school gangsters . “ we felt powerful when we were in a gang – no one could just come up and hit us , ” said nhean , adding that he used to carry brass knuckles and knives . his friends would sometimes fight almost every day , and long nights getting drunk with fellow gangsters became the norm . “ my mother would get worried , but i just told her i was sleeping at my friend ’ s house , ” he said . nhean decided to quit this culture of violence after watching chiev ’ s documentary . “ [the movie] made me walk away . and i felt nothing more , ” he added . although chiev has never been a gangster , he recalls from an early age watching his uncle get into fights at their slum near the stung meanchey rubbish dump . it was there chiev and his parents scavenged trash for a living . “ they ’ d fight each other on the mountain of the garbage with samurai swords , ” he said , adding that he left the dump when he was 11 years old after the community action centre aziza ’ s place brought him under its wing . “ i just give advice , and if the young gangster doesn ’ t listen , you should just walk away . ” for darom ’ s gang , who are in their mid - to late twenties , walking away from this cycle of violence is not an option . “ for now i can ’ t change my attitude – i want good times , i want to drink , i want a nice girl , ” said darom , who has three girlfriends and never wants to get married . khlah , who comes from kampong speu , has burned his bridges with his family . he was arrested when he was 19 years old and sent to jail for three months after punching another gangster who happened to be the son of a military police officer . “ ten years ago , i was a boy who didn ’ t cause any problems , ” he said . “ but now my parents are disappointed in me . i destroyed my dignity because their neighbours do not like the family who has a gangster for a son . ” khlah ’ s prison sentence only made things worse . although there were rehabilitation courses for inmates such as reading and art lessons , the experience left him without the fear of going back inside . “ it ’ s okay if the police arrest me and take me to prison again , because i have the experience already , ” he said . while many gangsters become hardened criminals , others grow disillusioned with the lifestyle . even darom and khlah have ambitions . darom is hoping to become a nightclub dj and khlah wants to start a restaurant . but , above all , they desire respect – and , for now at least , that comes with violence . “ in the future i want to be listened to , for my neighbours to value me , and to be rich , ” said darom . “ but i know with my attitude right now , it will take a long time . ” * name changed to protect identity
__label__no_relevant three police officers questioned over bribery three police officers questioned over briberyone of the accused officers is escorted away from the municipal court . one of the accused officers is escorted away from the municipal court . kt / pann rachanathree police officers were yesterday questioned by the anti - corruption unit for allegedly accepting bribes to release 18 chinese nationals arrested last week after being accused of operating voice over internet protocol scams in kampong speu province . kampong speu provincial police arrested the 18 chinese nationals last week after raiding a warehouse rented by the suspects . officers confiscated 21 phones , five laptops , two printers , 33 desktops and six walkie - talkies . lieutenant general y sok khy , director of the interior ministry ’ s counter terrorism and transactional crime department , said that his department later detained three police officers suspected of accepting bribes to release the suspects . “ we arrested [the police officers] on july 18 because they were suspected of accepting $40 , 000 for the release of the chinese nationals , ” lt gen sok khy said . lt gen sok khy identified the three officers as soeu sitha , deputy director of the identification department at the general department of identification ; rath pin , khmer identity bureau officer at the general department of identification ; and van sopheap , legal procedure bureau officer at the general department of immigration . the officers were sent to the anti - corruption unit to be questioned after being questioned at phnom penh municipal court . deputy prosecutor say nora could not be reached for comment . lt gen sok khy added that the general department of immigration is preparing to deport the 18 chinese nationals . lieutenant general uk heisela , deputy director - general at the general department of immigration , confirmed that the 18 chinese nationals are detained pending their deportation . “ we are waiting to prepare the documents to deport them back to china , ” he said . lt gen heisela added that as an officer at gdi , mr sopheap was not supposed to intervene in the case involving the chinese nationals . “ he is an officer but had no right to intervene in order to release the chinese nationals , ” he said , while declining to comment any further . general kang sokhorn , director - general at the general department of identification , confirmed that two of his officers were arrested but declined to elaborate on the case . “ they [officers] are working on the case and i have no comment , ” gen sokhorn said . om yentieng , chairman of anti - corruption unit , declined to comment yesterday . 
__label__no_relevant man charged for rape of sisters man charged for rape of sisterspolice arrested a cambodian man who impersonated a manpower agent to take two sisters to malaysia on the pretext of getting them jobs , but instead tortured and raped the victims at his house . police said according to the victims ’ mother , the ordeal began in july 27 last year when chhou chamroeun , also known as vanna , took a 28 - year - old woman to malaysia and in february this year , lured her 18 - year - old sister there as well . the sisters , from tbong khmum province , are khmer muslims while chamroeun is from prek peam village in peam chilaing commune , tbong khmum district , tbong khmum province . provincial court spokesperson theng kieng told the post yesterday that chamroeun , 55 , was arrested in cambodia last friday and is waiting to be charged in court . he travels from cambodia to malaysia regularly and owns a house there . tbong khmum district deputy police chief seng ni said the suspect lied to the parents that he will secure jobs for the two daughters in malaysia and promised to pay all expenses incurred in their travel . “ in february , chhou chamroeun returned from malaysia to meet the parents again . he told them their elder daughter was well and sought permission to take the 18 - year - old daughter to malaysia as well . the parents trusted and allowed him to take the younger daughter . “ after taking them to malaysia , he detained the victims in his home and did not allow them to work . the two girls were forced to stay with him . he even asked the two victims to marry him , ” said ni . in addition , the man behaved violently towards the two – beating them and shaving their heads bald , added ni . unable to bear the torture , the sisters informed their parents and the mother filed a complaint with local authorities to save her two daughters . “ we charged him for unlawful removal [of people] and cross - border transfer of people in accordance with article 8 and 10 of the suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation act . “ the case was sent to an investigating judge who ordered chamroeun be detained [in prison] since sunday , ” said ni . ni said the victims were still in malaysia and a human rights group was coordinating with the cambodian embassy in malaysia to repatriate them . 
__label__no_relevant woman linked to human trafficking case in 2014 woman linked to human trafficking case in 2014tboung khmum provincial court on saturday charged and jailed a woman suspected of being involved in the trafficking of three minors to china in 2014 . major nuth pov , an officer with the provincial anti - human trafficking and juvenile protection department , yesterday said that in march 2014 , the suspect allegedly persuaded impoverished families in dambe district ’ s dambe commune to vend three minors for marriage to men in china . maj pov said the suspect gave parents $3 , 000 for each victim . “ after the victims arrived in china , they were sold to work as karaoke girls , ” he said . “ they were forced to have sex with clients without payment . ” “ the victims later ran out of a karaoke bar and sought help from chinese police , ” maj pov added . “ they were later rescued by the cambodian embassy in 2015 . ” he said after they were repatriated in may 2015 , the victims filed a complaint with the provincial anti - human trafficking and juvenile protection department against rim vann , a 31 - year - old farmer who lived in the district . maj pov said the suspect fled after learning the victims had returned from china . he added that after years on the run , police finally arrested the suspect at her home on friday before she was sent to court the following day . she was charged with unlawful removal of a minor under the law on supression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation . the suspect could be jailed for up to five years if convicted . maj pov noted another suspect connected to the case is still at large . he said the suspect at large allegedly paid the victims ’ parents through ms vann , and arranged passports , visas and other travel documents for the victims . 
__label__relevant the cambodia daily a homeless boy , high on glue , puts a plastic bag over his head on the streets of phnom penh last month . ( emil kastrup / the cambodia daily ) a homeless boy , high on glue , puts a plastic bag over his head on the streets of phnom penh last month . ( emil kastrup / the cambodia daily ) she wanders phnom penh ’ s street 136 for hours , trudging past girly bars , gingerly approaching tourists laughing over frosted glasses of draft beer , holding out a thin hand to passersby . on a good night , she pockets 10 , 000 riel , or about $2 . 50 . on a bad night of begging , she walks away with a few hundred crumpled riel , having spent the hours rejected or ignored . just 16 , soeun srey barely scrapes by on the streets of the capital , one of nearly 2 , 700 teens between 13 and 17 years old whom a recent report identifies as homeless or living in inadequate housing in cambodia ’ s major cities . among those , 65 percent are boys , according to the report by new york ’ s columbia university in collaboration with the cambodian national institute of statistics and friends international , a child protection ngo based in the capital . but fewer teenage girls living on the streets is not necessarily a reflection of better circumstances . at that age , they are more noticeable and more vulnerable to sex traffickers , the researchers say . cambodia ’ s cities are a beacon of opportunity for youths from poor , rural families , who flock to phnom penh and siem reap for construction contracts , tourism jobs or to beg on the streets . “ people coming from rural situations are very vulnerable , because they don ’ t know how to exist in the city , ” said james sutherland , international communications coordinator for friends international . “ it ’ s a very different place , ” he said . “ it may be the opportunity to make more money , but the risks are so much greater . ” for srey , a former drug user who has been sleeping on the streets of daun penh district ’ s phsar chas commune for two years , danger is everywhere . more than once , she has been attacked while sleeping . older homeless boys , high on glue fumes , sometimes find her resting place , kick her , stomp on her head and steal her money . for a while , she used ice—the street name for a potent form of crystal methamphetamine—but it made her feel weird and paranoid , and “ people used to say bad things about me , ” she said . small for her age , she makes an effort to appear presentable , with a clean navy flannel shirt and her hair pulled back off her face . she ’ s articulate and confident as she talks of a better future one day , when she has her own salon where she can style hair or paint nails in pretty colors . she still has hope . in another part of the city , life is improving a little for 17 - year - old rath pany . until a few days ago , she was also begging on the streets , but now sells vegetables for vendors along mao tse toung boulevard , making between 10 , 000 and 20 , 000 riel a day , or about $2 . 50 to $5 . “ i felt shy asking for money along the streets , ” she said . on a good day , she can afford a cheap meal , but when there ’ s not enough money to feed her family—her mother , siblings and a young niece—she goes hungry . if she could return to rural kandal province—from which her family of seven fled after her mother ’ s microfinance loan reached an unpayable $3 , 000—pany said she might be able to start a wedding makeup business or open a grocery store . “ to improve my life , i need someone to help me , to provide me some money to run the business , ” she said . a homeless boy stands in the street in phnom penh . ( emil kastrup / the cambodia daily ) her extended family sleeps on the pavement in front of houses near the intersection of mao tse toung and monireth boulevards , until homeowners chase them away . they use restrooms in a nearby market to keep clean . life in the countryside “ seems easier than here , ” pany said . yet , like many of the other homeless teenagers and young adults living on phnom penh ’ s streets , she sees no other options . ngos and government officials are gleaning more information about homeless adolescents in cambodia ’ s cities with the help of studies such as the one by columbia university . reasons for homelessness are complex and varied . while poor families may send their young children to an orphanage to relieve the financial strain , older ones search for jobs to support their families , mr . sutherland said . others spend their childhoods in for - profit orphanages and find themselves cast away when they are teenagers and no longer “ cute ” enough for prospective visitors , said his colleague , vuthy sokanha , communications coordinator for friends ’ cambodia team . when jobs and opportunities aren ’ t forthcoming or fall through , many homeless or poor teenagers and young adults turn to begging . uneducated and ill - prepared for the adult world , many said they have no other choice . they choose locations brimming with tourists , like phnom penh ’ s riverside and phsar chas ’ bars and nightclubs . they hover at major intersections lined by sidewalks and boulevards , wiping the hoods of cars with grey feather dusters . kong sreynak doesn ’ t know how long she ’ s been in the big city , only that it seems like a very long time , probably several years since she left her home in kandal province to earn money for her mother . the young woman , whose hands , feet and face are deformed , is not sure how old she is now—perhaps 20 or 21 . unable to read , write or work in a factory , she turned to the streets . at the intersection of sihanouk and monivong boulevards , sreynak lopes between cars and motorbikes stopped at the intersection , holding her arms outstretched to the rolled - up windows . drivers pointedly look away . with drooping eyes , a mouth locked in a grin , and sparse blackened teeth , she pleads for help . sometimes , a driver will partially roll down the window and hand over small bills—100 riel or the odd 500 riel note , which she tucks away in a tattered black cloth purse . from these meager handouts , she can save up to $30 a week . every weekend , she makes the journey back to kandal to see her mother . with her leopard print headband and dirty faded pink sandals embossed with the word “ love , ” sreynak is endearingly childlike , and the older women on the streets have taken her under their wing . for the ngos and the government , keeping track of the city ’ s itinerant population is no easy task . a pavement that provides a home one week will be abandoned the next , as another location becomes more appealing or district guards clear a begging hot spot . ngos do their best to help—from providing shelter to reuniting homeless youths with their families , or simply offering advice on staying clean or healthy . they ’ re not the only ones keeping an eye out for phnom penh ’ s young and homeless . security guard ung rotha , 29 , keeps watch every night as adolescents and adults haunt the food vendors and pristine boulevard in front of the nagaworld casino and hotel , scrounging for tattered riel notes in the shadow of the opulent building , where rooms can start at $150 - a - night and high - rolling rich chinese clients burn through dollars in the casino . according to mr . rotha , a short man with slicked hair and polished black shoes , the homeless in the area he patrols bordering daun penh and chamkar mon districts can make up to 50 , 000 riel , or about $12 . 50 , in one night on the strip . employed by the local chamkar mon district authority , it ’ s his job to keep an eye out for beggars . “ after we leave , they all come back , ” he said . decked in khaki fatigues dotted with multiple badges , mr . rotha and a group of five other men kick up their feet and lounge around a pickup truck , eating noodles as dusk falls on the bustling traffic of the mainland side of koh pich street . the badges and military - looking uniforms are merely symbolic . mr . rotha said the guards do not have authorization to do anything other than alert district authorities when trouble arises . district patrols will then swoop in and round up the begging children and transport them to district authorities or ngo - run emergency centers . it ’ s often a waste of time . when district officials recently brought nine children from the street to the children ’ s rights ngo pour un sourire d ’ enfant , all of them ran away from the shelter within two nights , said seng sokmean , an assistant in the social department of the ngo known in english as for a child ’ s smile . top : kong sreynak at the intersection of monivong and sihanouk boulevards . middle : chan socheat , a homeless 18 - year - old . bottom : chan socheat ’ s companion plays with a plastic bag used to sniff glue . ( emil kastrup / the cambodia daily ) rather than forcing young adults into shelters , child welfare ngos such as friends leave the choice up to the homeless teens , mr . sutherland said . the team will offer medical services and advice on hygiene—showing adolescents how to clip their fingernails—or give clean needles to those who do drugs . they help them access schools , shelters or job training . “ if they choose to remain on the streets , we ’ re still there for them to provide services to make sure they ’ re as safe as possible and they ’ re as healthy as possible , ” he said . escaping the cycle of homelessness and poverty seems beyond the reach of most of these young people , many observers say . but among them , there are those who have turned their lives around . samreth , 26 , once had no concept of the future . in a perpetual drugged haze , he had minimal motivation to change his ways . but after one incident left him unconscious and alone , he went for advice to his cousin , the one family member who would still talk to him . “ a dog will still be a dog , ” samreth ’ s cousin told him . “ you can ’ t be changed into someone else . you do the same thing over and over . ” it was a turning point for samreth , whose name has been changed to protect his job . after three years of living on the streets , samreth finally asked friends international to help him stay off drugs . within two years , he quit using , received training as an electrician and found a job installing air conditioning units in phnom penh ’ s hotels and office buildings . he now has his own room , a television and a fan on the first floor of his family home , and he spends his evenings with the family that previously gave up on him . his brother , who once ignored him , bought him a gold watch rimmed in crystals that glisten from beneath his navy collared shirt . friends international reconnected 436 children with their families throughout their three cambodia locations in 2015 , according to the ngo ’ s most recent annual report . the process , from meeting a homeless adolescent on the streets to reuniting that teen with family , can take years , as night falls in the city , srey prepares to settle down for another evening sleeping on the streets , this time in the shadow of a shuttered riverside cafe . women sit together on thin , unraveling mats , and one changes the diaper on a squirming , underweight baby . srey sometimes sleeps among these of families , on the concrete ground with little cover other than her flannel shirt and grey leggings . lying awake at night , she sometimes imagines life in her home of kampuchea krom , the ethnically cambodian section of vietnam , where her mother and two siblings moved two years ago after her father died . srey still holds on to a little hope that one day she can be reunited with her mother . she estimates the trip south would cost about $50 . she looks down as she considers this seemingly insurmountable challenge , her long tangled bangs obscuring her face . her talk of seeing her mother again or opening her own beauty salon seems a distant dream . chan socheat harbors no such hopes . standing with his hands thrust in the pockets of his white , dirt - stained hoodie , his trousers are ripped and his feet are bare . the 18 - year - old said he suffers sleeping on the sidewalk or in front of strangers ’ homes . he feels cold every night and his exposed feet and arms are covered with a rash of raised mosquito bites . “ sleeping in people ’ s front yards , people look down at us , ” he said . he spends his days begging for money , both to eat and feed his glue addiction . as socheat speaks , a 16 - year - old who refers to himself as khmorch , or “ ghost , ” breathes into a clear plastic bag filled with glue wrapped around his left hand and hidden within his oversized blue button - down shirt , his gaunt chest expanding as he inhales . any dreams for socheat ’ s future are stolen by the oblivion of the glue . “ there ’ s nothing i want , ” he said after a pause , running his fingers through his fashionably cut hair—long on top , shaved to the scalp on the sides , the one aspect of his appearance that seems maintained . “ when i think about the future , it gives me headache . ” with that , socheat and his crew shuffle off , disappearing into the darkness and back to the streets . [email protected] , [email protected]© 2017 , all rights reserved . 
__label__no_relevant ‘love huts ’ of ratanakiri minorities : is a tradition quietly slipping away ? women of tang kamal village collect water from the well . there is no electicity or running water in the village , and its residents rely on farming to survive . charlotte pert‘love huts ’ of ratanakiri minorities : is a tradition quietly slipping away ? the construction of huts for the kreung minority ’ s teenage girls , so that they can engage in premarital sex , has long been ingrained in its culture . emily wight travelled to ratanakiri and found the custom to be something almost completely of the past . it ’ s nearing sunset on a friday evening in the dry season , and in the village of tang kamal in ratanakiri , women gather by the well to bathe and collect water . cooling off from a long day of farming , they try to avoid tripping over the pigs , dogs and chickens that scarp around at their feet . when the sun sets , many of these women will sleep with their families in their homes . but some of the teenage girls will be an exception . it is a tradition in the kreung minority , scattered in 27 villages around ratanakiri ’ s ochum district , to build girls their own private huts when they hit puberty . the idea of these huts , or “ girl ’ s houses ” , as they are referred to by the communities themselves , is that girls can have the space and opportunity to invite boys over , get to know them , and have sex with them if they want to . yang na is 16 , and her parents built her a girl ’ s house when she was 13 years old . she sleeps alone , and if a boy pays her a visit , she will decide whether or not she wants to let him in . sometimes they stay up all night talking . it ’ s entirely up to her , she said , and she feels very much in control : “ i have the power to sleep with a boy if i want , but if i don ’ t like him , i always say no , and he goes away . ” the kreung community value premarital sex , she said , because it is a way of proving to parents that a boy and a girl love each other . she added : “ if we have sex and we are sure we love each other , and so are our parents , then we can get married . ” tang kamal is 7km north of the provincial capital of banlung , and is home to 100 kreung families . their survival depends on the farming of land more than a 10km walk away , through dense forest , and the growth of cashew nuts that they then sell in the markets . there is no electricity or running water , and the nearest health centre is in a different village 3km away . a large number of kreung would rather practice traditional medicine , according to a local ngo . yang na said that her parents built her this house when she was 13 years old . charlotte pertbut tang kamal stands out in particular from other kreung villages . it is one of the only villages that still builds huts for its teenage girls . the custom is disappearing as the minority becomes exposed to modernisation and khmer culture . families can also afford to build bigger houses , and parents are increasingly choosing to create a room inside the house for their daughters rather than to build them a new hut . according to jan noorlander , program co - ordinator of the marginalised and ethnic minorities program at care cambodia , kreung people are now able to construct bigger , sturdier houses due to economic development and improved livelihoods . he said : “ their traditional houses are much smaller , but they also have to be rebuilt every year because they are bamboo , and they get damaged in the rainy season . building a bigger , timber house is much more practical . ” khoun roeun is deputy community chief at laork village , home to at least 150 kreung families . according to roeun , parents used to build huts for both teenage boys and girls , but about two years ago , they took them down in favour of giving them a room inside the house instead . he said : “ before , this community practiced this old custom – parents would make girl ’ s and boy ’ s houses . but based on experience , there were too many problems , like the girl becoming pregnant with no husband , or boys fighting over girls . ” parents still allow their daughters to have premarital sex , he said , but if a girl sleeps under the same roof , they can have more control over who she is spending the night with . he added : “ sometimes parents would worry that the girl was sleeping with too many boys , but now they can regulate who she is sleeping with . ” naoung tien , 53 , also from laork , said the custom disappeared in her village after the pol pot regime . she was just a child when the khmer rouge came to power , and remembers being sent away to work elsewhere in ratanakiri . when she returned , she said , girl ’ s houses were a thing of the past : “ there were huts in 1975 , but i remember when i came back there weren ’ t any more . ” she added that along with her late husband , she constructed separate rooms in her house for her daughters when they were growing up , and allowed them to bring boys back . she said : “ it ’ s ok for girls to sleep with boys if they love each other , and if the parents meet and approve . ” suri , also ethnically kreung , moved from the village of her birth to kraes village in order to get married . charlotte pertthere are subtle differences in customs between each kreung community . kala village , for example , is 20 km from banlung . like the other villages , the only sounds are the squawks of chickens , the laughter of children and the odd bark from a dog . here there are both girl ’ s and boy ’ s houses , the decipherable difference being that the latter is built on higher stilts . but they ’ re no longer used to fit the traditional purpose , according to 70 year old ravee . she said that she and her husband built a hut for their daughter , who got married before she had the opportunity to use it . perched on the edge of that same structure , ravee , her traditional jewellery the only thing covering the top half of her body , shuffled between the inside of the hut , where she was minding a bubbling stove , and out . since their daughter married , her and her husband have used the hut to store their pots and pans . underneath , three sleeping pigs basked in the shade . ravee said that kala ’ s residents are also building bigger houses , some even made of brick . there is no longer a need for a separate building , but like in laork village , girls will sleep in a separate room in their family home . she continued : “ for our community , it ’ s normal to have sex before getting married , but now the girl ’ s parents can get to know the boy because he can stay with them for a few days . they can investigate the boy ’ s background , ask the village if he is from a good family , or if he is a lazy farmer . it ’ s always important that the boy works hard . ” rape has never been a problem for ravee ’ s community , she said – despite the increased vulnerability of a woman alone in a house . there are no statistics , but , ravee continued : “ our tradition says that if a boy has sex with a girl by force , he gets fined by the village chief , who will take away livestock from his parents . boys are usually very scared of this , so they won ’ t have sex with a girl unless she agrees . ” she added : “ the girl is the one who makes the decisions – the girl decides whether or not she will sleep with the boy , and later she will decide whether or not she will marry him . she is in control . ” kraes village , about 10km further from banlung down a winding dirt road that coats a layer of dust on everything in its wake , has also got rid of its girl ’ s house tradition . twelve - year - old tuot said that her parents already decided not to build one for her because they have a well - built house . a young couple put the final touches to what looked very much like a girl ’ s house – but they claimed they were building it for storage . recently married 18 - year - old suri , who is from another kreung village and moved here for her husband , said that even in her village , the practice is dying out . the tradition of girl ’ s houses has been a part of kreung culture for a long time . charlotte pertaum seaynng , who prefers to be referred to as jammy , is a sales manager at parrot tours , a trekking company that organises homestays with indigenous minority groups . he has more than eight years ’ experience of trekking in the local area , but the last time he came to kraes was a couple of years ago . he was surprised to see how things had changed : “ right here there were girl ’ s houses , and now there aren ’ t any – i ’ m surprised people have quit this tradition , ” he said . he continued : “ now they are richer , they can afford a bigger house , and they have rooms inside the house – not like before when everyone slept together . ” jammy predicted that as kreung people become more exposed to khmer culture , they will begin to look down on premarital sex . according to sarim heang , executive director at the community development organisation cando cambodia , this is already happening . kreung villages used to be cut off from the rest of society , which enabled them to preserve their traditions . but now , he said , they have access to khmer culture through tv and radio . he said : “ they know that according to khmer culture , it ’ s not good to have sex before marriage . they also go to cambodian schools , where teachers will educate them according to mainstream society . ” noorlander emphasised that change in indigenous customs has to come from the people themselves . he said : “ communities themselves will make decisions on what changes they want to have , or they will determine if they want to stay a certain way . indigenous people are undergoing changes , but so are khmer people , and it ’ s very important that people are in charge of their own change . ” additional reporting by vandy muong
__label__no_relevant big opposition gains voters wait in line to cast their ballots at a polling station in kandal province ’ s takhmao city . pha linabig opposition gainsthe ruling cambodian people ’ s party saw its ironclad grip on the national assembly weaken dramatically , dropping 22 seats in winning 68 of 123 , with the opposition the beneficiary and the cpp ’ s royalist coalition partners winning none at all in an election rife with alleged irregularities . though polls – which opened at 7am – were calm for the most part , isolated incidents of violence in phnom penh , kandal and prey veng attested to the unusually tense atmosphere surrounding this election , the most fiercely contested in a decade . and though the opposition cambodia national rescue party made unprecedented gains , party officials said they believed their share of the vote was far higher than reported , while election monitors warned of widespread irregularities . according to figures released by the cpp and concurrently posted on other government websites including that of the national counter - terrorism committee , the opposition won in four provinces : phnom penh , kampong cham , prey veng and kandal , and made inroads on every cpp stronghold . cnrp lawmaker tioulong saumura , said the gains were likely even stronger . “ i think they are higher [in our favour] , ” said saumura , who is also opposition leader sam rainsy ’ s wife . “ but i think it ’ s a big victory , even if we were to accept those figures that have come in violation of the law . ” senior cpp lawmaker chheang vun conceded that the party would need to “ make some reforms , review and work harder ” in the wake of the early results . a tense daywith numerous names missing from voter lists , allegations of illegal voting , and concerns over the quality of the election ink and ballot paper , pressure at times exploded into violence . in phnom penh ’ s stung meanchey commune , a riot broke out in the afternoon as voters left off the list contested the results of the election , claiming officials had allowed vietnamese to illegally vote . about 100 police officers poured in , surrounding the pagoda , where they were met with rock - throwing demonstrators who overturned two military police cars before setting them on fire . at least one man was injured and sent to the hospital , while protesters detained the polling station director . the incident mirrored one that took place earlier in the day in nearby kbal koh commune , where 500 people blocked allegedly illegal vietnamese voters from casting ballots . similar scenes played out elsewhere across phnom penh and were widely disseminated on social media . similarly , in prey veng ’ s kanh chriech district , at least 100 people incited rallies against people they considered “ outsiders ” coming to vote in kdoeung reay commune . an 18 - year - old was detained as authorities sought to crack down on the riot , which they said was unwarranted as every voter had been registered in that area for a year . “ villagers don ’ t understand the election law and reacted this way because they have never seen these people before . that ’ s why police and military police were down here , ” said deputy commune chief yem yuhorn , seeking to explain a heavy military presence . large numbers of police , military police and military could be seen across the country . after the ballots closed , armed forces were deployed across phnom penh and in front of hun sen ’ s house and cpp headquarters , panicking many , who ran to stock up on food and emptied atms around the capital . “ we deployed the armed forces to protect the security after the election , ” said national military police spokesman kheng tito . “ i think it is normal for armed forces to protect the security to prevent any incident after the election , ” he said . cnrp president sam rainsy greets party supporters at a polling station in phnom penh yesterday . the opposition leader was not able to exercise his vote . crying foulthough violence affected only a handful of areas , alleged irregularities were rife , election monitors comfrel , the national democratic institute and transparency international reported . “ based on the standards of democracy and the principle of democracies worldwide , for that to meet the [international] standards of elections , cambodia ’ s elections fell short , ” preap kol , executive director of ti cambodia , said at a conference held last night . “ the campaign environment is better this year , better than 2008 for violence , but when you look at what happened today with the polls and the chaos at the polls , when you see that , then the elections this year are worse . ” observers recorded unprecedented voter list problems , “ unusual ” numbers of police at polling stations and at least two stations that were moved without prior notice . “ in some areas , this has led to outrage and mobs , ” he said , adding that the ease with which indelible ink could be removed from fingers led to another series of problems . though nec officials insisted the ink was just one of many safeguards , at least some people managed to cast multiple ballots . at a meanchey district polling station , one man told the post he ’ d easily voted twice once the ink was removed – once for him , another time for a relative whose name should have been on the list but was left off . comfrel reported sunday night that more than 200 individual irregularities had been recorded , the bulk of which related to missing voter list names . earlier this year , ndi warned that upwards of a million people were wrongly left off the voter list of 9 . 6 million and highlighted a raft of issues – including registration rates exceeding 125 per cent in some provinces . opposition leader rainsy , who was left off both the voter and candidate lists despite a royal pardon that overturned his convictions , said the party was highly concerned . speaking at a sothearos polling station in bassac commune , one of several stations he stopped at over the course of the day , rainsy told reporters that voters were growing increasingly upset . “ many people could not find their names , so they are lost and they feel very sad not to be able to cast their ballots . i see that they have set it up to be difficult for people who are known not to support [the cpp] side . so they make people ’ s names vanish , ” he said . at a press conference held at national election committee headquarters shortly after the ballots were counted , chairman im suosdey denied reports of large - scale problems , saying the instances of violence were the only troubles faced at the polls . rather than problems with the voter list or registration issues , insisted suosdey , the age of the voters was to blame for the isolated skirmishes . “ in the 2008 election , there were not many youths , so the situation was not chaotic . we try to avoid the problem , especially authorities try to avoid problem in the polling station , ” he told reporters . another group of observers was similarly sanguine about the day ’ s turnout . speaking at an nec - organised conference , representatives from the international conference of asian political parties – a group of foreign monitors whose trip was sponsored by the cpp – lauded the election . touring the capital since friday , delegates from countries including south korea , azerbaijan , laos , the russian federation , malaysia and thailand allegedly only witnessed “ fair and transparent democratic proceedings ” , according to russia ’ s delegate , one of nine who refused to give their names to the handful of reporters who attended the briefing . prime minister hun sen and first lady bun rany hold up their ink - stained fingers after voting in takhmao , kandal province . pha linatough pill for cppif preliminary results are accurate , the tally sees the cpp drop to its lowest vote share in 15 years . while its majority stands , and the party will retain power thanks to the constitution ’ s “ 50 - plus - one ” proviso , officials appeared somewhat cowed yesterday . “ the success is not like the election in 2008 , and we will have to make some reforms , review and work harder , ” admitted senior cpp lawmaker vun . vun also took pains to point to the opposition success as proof positive of cambodia ’ s functioning democracy . “ it ’ s a good democracy in cambodia , as we have a strong challenge from the opposition . ” for funcinpec , which appeared to have not won a single seat in spite of promises that a royalist merger had re - energised the party , a measure of denial seemed the word of the day . “ i don ’ t yet know what the actual results are , ” funcinpec spokesman tum sambo said . “ i will follow this up in every province . but it ’ s not yet confirmed . ” the cnrp , meanwhile , gave conflicting information , withdrawing a statement claiming victory , which was issued shortly after the polls closed , and instead urging supporters to stay calm . “ today is a historic day , the day that citizens have expressed their will . there is nothing more important than the people ’ s real will ; we are democrats and must respect and congratulate , ” rainsy said at a press conference . “ i would like to appeal to all cnrp supporters to absolutely avoid using violence against anyone . don ’ t touch anyone , even one hair . ” fear of violence appeared to have concerned others as well , with the us embassy urging its citizens to “ limit their movements ” because of “ the potential for civil unrest ” . voters check for their names on a registered voters list at a polling station in prey veng province . vireak maiindividual strugglesthough most voters entered , cast ballots and left without any problem , many encountered difficulties . voters whose names weren ’ t on the list were told to call an nec hotline for support . one woman the post saw in this situation in prey veng was unable to get through after repeated efforts . another woman , who arrived to find someone else had voted using her name , was still allowed to cast a ballot . in peamro district ’ s prek khsay khor commune , cnrp supporter mok meng was in a heated discussion with voting officials . “ i did not see my name and officials have not helped me , ” she said , adding she had checked her details before the election . but snoun channy , a voting inspector for the cpp , said meng had been careless . “ it ’ s her fault . if she had checked , her name would be there and she could vote . ” despite widespread claims of illegal vietnamese voters , prey veng , too , saw large gains for the cnrp , with the opposition jumping from 3 to 6 of the province ’ s 11 seats . in battambang , cheng sim , 75 , said she was bereft after being unable to cast a ballot after four straight elections in which she had successfully voted . “ i really want to vote for the peace and happiness of my country , ” she said . sim said she had never heard of the identification certificate for election ( ice ) form that is issued by commune officials and allows those without identification to cast their vote . up to 100 , 000 ices are estimated to have been issued in battambang , raising fears that “ ghost - voters ” could have assumed the identities of others . cambodian election officials empty a ballot box in front of monitoring officials in kampong cham province . heng chivoanagainst the predictions of interior minister and cpp lawmaker sar kheng , who yesterday morning insisted “ the cpp will not lose , and we will maintain at least six seats ” , the opposition managed to make a slight inroad , winning three of eight seats . in kampong cham , the most populous province , with 18 seats up for grabs , the opposition jumped from six seats to 10 , while the royalists saw their single seat here erased . those outcomes dovetailed neatly with predictions proffered by cnrp deputy kem sokha , who yesterday told reporters that it was impossible the cpp would retain its 11 seats . “ if they get 11 seats , it ’ s because they ’ re cheating , ” he said . ultimately , it appeared the opposition ’ s rallying cry of b ’ do , or change , hit home for many . “ the reason that i came to vote is that i just want to change the leaders , ” sok dara , 29 , said , noting that the sentiment was widely shared by his friends and co - workers . “ it ’ s been 30 years already , and we ’ re still not developed . ” reporting by vong sokheng , cheang sokha , meas sokchea , sen david , chhay channyda , kim sarom , buth reaksmey kongkea , sean teehan , amelia woodside and abby seiff in phnom penh ; may titthara and stuart white in kampong cham ; mom kunthear and shane worrell in prey veng ; phak seangly and kevin ponniah in battambang
__label__no_relevant for women in politics the numbers still add up to little the percentage of female candidates in each province for the national election , based on nec data . courtesy of cambodia center for human rights / sithi . orgfor women in politics the numbers still add up to littleamid voting irregularities and fraud claims , last month ’ s elections claimed another victim as representation of women dropped to its lowest in a decade , rosa ellen reports . on the monday after the national election , as the country was abuzz with the uncertain result and the main parties publicly brewed over numbers , ros sopheap joined a discussion in the situation room , a tent at the offices of comfrel ( committee for free and fair elections in cambodia ) , where civil society and election watchers discussed the vote . sopheap , who is deputy chair of the committee to promote women in politics ( cpwp ) , had a burning question she wanted answered by the predominantly male panel . whoever ended up forming the government , what should be done about the low number of women representatives in cambodia ’ s parliament ? mu sochua holds up her ink - stained finger after voting . scott howes “ i wanted them to bring the issue [up] , ” she explains over the phone the next day . “ what was their answer to me ? they said , ‘you should ask the political parties this . you shouldn ’ t ask this here . ’ “ the other male speaker [said] ‘oh dear , women ’ – like they ’ re weak . ” the dismissive response was not unusual to sopheap , who is also executive director of gender and development for cambodia and has the often uphill task of educating organisation heads on why they should push for greater female representation . but it was the supposedly open setting – a public forum in the direct aftermath of a crucial election – which was infuriating . a few days later comfrel put forward its own preliminary figures , expecting the next national assembly to have just 16 women , or 13 per cent * – 10 fewer female lawmakers than cambodia ’ s previous mandate , which had 26 women in the 123 seat assembly . [the nec would not say what its predictions were . ]the preliminary numbers were hardly unexpected – this election women made up 22 per cent of all election candidates , according to nec data . most of those female candidates stood not on the title ticket , but on the reserve list , in case a candidate dropped out . despite the presence of prominent lawmakers like mu sochua and ( cpp permanent deputy prime minister ) men sam an , neither major party boosted the number of women on their lists this election or voluntarily enforced the un millennium development goal of a 30 per cent quota of women representatives . the sam rainsy party ( srp ) and human rights party ( hrp ) together had 23 women candidates in the 2008 election , and this year the combined cnrp has 12 . for sonket sereyleak , comfrel ’ s education and gender coordinator , the male - female ratio of the next government is not just a side issue , or to be parceled with the youth vote , which parties often mention in the same breath . even more campaigning and education went into the july 28 election than in 2008 , where substantial gains were made , so what does the result say about politics in cambodia ? sochua and supporters at psar leu , battambang , earlier this week . reaksmey yean “ our team tried to take more action ( this time around ) . we coordinated more campaigns to put women on party lists but only the small parties put women . some parties put 45 per cent and 35 per cent in their party lists but [when it comes to] the popular parties… it ’ s still hard work . after the election we will continue trying to advocate . ” a week after the election , at 9 : 30am in battambang ’ s phsar thmei , mu sochua , who won one of the province ’ s eight seats , moved through the crowded aisles of vegetable and fish sellers with a team of local supporters . a week had passed since she re - won her seat and the 59 - year - old , in a white blouse and dark , patterned sampot , made the rounds of the morning markets , thanking people for their votes and support . she stopped in the shade in front of two dessert stalls and with a microphone addressed the women ladling out sago and sweets . the women shyly answered her questions with smiles . how long had they been selling deserts for ? fifteen years answered one – 30 , said another . and after 30 years they haven ’ t changed from sweets ? cambodia needs to change , to develop , she told them with a smile . trailing sochua through the crowd was the cnrp ’ s male number two candidate , long botta , a handful of eager young people and , so the team claim , two plain - clothes policemen . later , sochua said , she confronted the pair by serving them a stern political message – “ change ” . cnrp supporters at freedom park . scott howeswhen she started her election campaigning in force , the mood in the predominantly female market crowd was timid and people were reluctant to respond to the politician ’ s public banter , sochua said . after the success of the cnrp with sam rainy ’ s return and in battambang – in which the party is contesting an extra seat on top of its three agreed wins – people openly showed their support for the party . battambang local srey pov , 35 , who happened to be shopping for groceries while the cnrp crowd depart for the food area , was a party supporter and –when asked – said she would like more women in the national assembly “ but i want someone with enough credentials . ” sochua has a similar answer to the misbalance . the party ’ s shedding of the female candidates when it was formed was a practical move , she said . “ because we are the opposition – that ’ s number one . we put [women] at the top level – we don ’ t just sign people [to the] opposition , we want them to win . of the 15 [cnrp] women candidates , 7 or 8 of them won . as for the cpp , they are in the system already . they are professional women , it ’ s easy for them to choose their female candidates , ” she said . “ as for us , we have to find these women and then put them on the list and we did not just want to put women on the reserve list… ” but aren ’ t most on the reserve list ? “ yes but they ’ re on the top ones as well - - the top ones are sure wins . we could increase more . we could put four or five women on the reserve list , we could get any women on the reserve list , but we don ’ t want to demoralise them , like funcinpec . [they have] a lot of women…it is not about numbers , it ’ s about quality . otherwise you don ’ t do a service to women in politics . ” gadc ’ s ros sopheap : why isn ’ t gender on the agenda ? hong meneaalthough the royalist party , which had roughly the same percentage of female candidates as the cnrp , suffered near total defeat at the july 28 election , the party has in the past supported a 30 per cent quota of candidates and is the only party with a female head , with late king father norodom sihanouk ’ s daughter princess norodom arun rasmey . while the three best - known political parties made no gains with female representation , small and lesser - known parties such as the kedp ( khmer economic development party ) , only seven months old by the time of the election , had 50 per cent female candidates . vice president lim samnang attributed the number of women who wanted to run on the kedp ticket to the minor party ’ s economic and social policies , but their late - starting campaign mainly featured outspoken kedp president and wealthy businessman huon reach chamroeun . moving women off the reserve list and into the top slots of the ballot sheet , is a big barrier , says sopheap , but getting candidates to a level where they are campaign ready is not just a matter of being “ qualified ” , but having money . young first - time cnrp candidate yang phannet was listed as the party ’ s number four in prey veng , where 10 out of the 77 titular candidates were female , but says tradition , money and skills are the biggest barriers to other young women . “ as you know , in khmer culture the daughters cannot learn much or as high as the men and the women are not encouraged to join in politics as the men [are] . “ most cambodian women depend on their husband , so if they want to join in the politician or any party they have to have enough budget for supporting both family and party because the party needs all the members donate , ” she says . mu sochua estimates she spent a total “ of about $50 , 000 for one seat – the top seat ” while campaigning for more than a year . “ to win , ” she says , “ you have to have at least $20 , 000 . ” laying the groundwork – canvassing at the market , public speaking , petitioning and braving intimidation – is a huge challenge for most women working and supporting their families . the point may be an obvious one , but the weight of traditional gender norms on prospective female political candidates cannot be overestimated , says sochua , who paid campaign costs for all her female reserve candidates . she insists the issue of female representation is a genuine priority to the senior leaders of the cnrp . she herself is a mentor to younger women and is on the lookout for go - getters , several of whom she has met in battambang province . “ if a woman wants to run , [she] has to be balance the two [gender] roles . actually it ’ s two different lives – in the home and outside . for myself , i ’ m able to manage that because i have every supportive family and i don ’ t have any financial obligations – my husband takes care of the whole thing . so for someone who is at the lower level , but wants to reach up to the higher level , you have to go through three big barriers . ” there are affirmative mechanisms to address the substantial barriers , says sereyleak . if not ngo - run training programs to build women leaders , there is the 30 per cent legal quota , which would bind the political parties to putting forward many more female candidates . cambodia ’ s own goal of 25 per cent female representation by the year 2015 is well - acknowledged to be no more than a pipe dream now . “ even though [the srp and hrp] joined together they did not consider promoting [women] for this election , ” she says . “ the 30 per cent quota is an effective way to promote women ’ s participation and to increase democracy…because if they use a quota system it will increase the number of women in the election . rwanda uses the election quota . they ’ ve had a very good experience . ” at the situation room after the election , sopheap listened as the conversation moved away from her topic and back to the disputed results and dramatic events of the night before . “ it ’ s not about men and women - it ’ s beyond that , ” she says . “ every time i raise this [issue] with women who are not even highly educated , they understand . but every time i raise this with highly educated men ( they don ’ t ) . “ my point was that they have to make a decision , about where to go with this - what can we do ? ” several female cpp candidates approached refused to take questions for this story . * new figures will be released after 7days goes to print . additional reporting by mom kunthear
__label__no_relevant charges dropped as rape claim withdrawn charges dropped as rape claim withdrawnall charges were dropped against a man accused of raping his niece by the phnom penh municipal court yesterday . hem sakhorn , 43 and vietnamese , was released from jail because , according to judge kor vandy , there was insufficient evidence to support an allegation that he raped 17 - year - old nguven thiyong on may 13 in chbar ampov district ’ s chbar ampov ii commune . “ the victim has also withdrawn the lawsuit against the defendant , ” kor added . according to the original police report , thiyong was grabbed and raped by her uncle after she had gone to the construction worker ’ s room to ask for $2 . the pair were discovered together in the afternoon by the teenager ’ s elder sister , the report added , who alerted police , who then arrested sakhorn . however , thiyong told the court her uncle didn ’ t rape her , but said she was not believed by her elder sister , who pressed charges . sokhorn welcomed the decision to free him , but was angry he had been incarcerated in the first place . 
__label__no_relevant inmate denies having sex with r ’ kiri prison chief , official says the chief of the ratanakkiri provincial prison remained in his position last week as interior ministry officials concluded their initial investigation into claims that he had sex with an inmate and abused his power for personal profit , officials said on monday . a five - day investigation into tin sovanna was opened after prison officials filed a complaint to the interior ministry ’ s general department of prisons on december 6 accusing the prison chief of having sex with an inmate , regularly making convicts clean his house and pocketing money from sales of fishing nets woven by prisoners . san keo , spokesman for the general department of prisons , said the results of the initial investigation , which concluded on friday , would soon be sent to interior minister sar kheng . however , the inmate who accused the prison chief of having sex with her retracted her claims under questioning by interior ministry officials , mr . keo said . “ regarding the accusation that he slept with an inmate , the working group asked the inmate , and she denied what they accused her of , ” he said . during the investigation , mr . sovanna continued to run the prison where all of the complainants are either employed or incarcerated , mr . keo added . “ [mr . sovanna] came to work normally because he was [only] under primary investigation , ” he said , adding that the prison chief has denied all of the accusations against him . marc borg , a prison consultant for rights group licadho , said he had heard that the female inmate at the center of the complaint was brought to phnom penh during the investigation . he added , however , that the prison chief should have been suspended pending the probe . “ i think it would have been typical to at least temporarily suspend him while the investigation is going on , ” mr . borg said . ( additional reporting by george wright ) [email protected]© 2015 , all rights reserved . 
__label__relevant japanese authorities arrest trio suspected of sex trafficking cambodian authorities are tracking down a network of traffickers after three suspects were arrested in japan over the exploitation of seven cambodian women lured to japan with the promise of waitressing jobs and instead forced into sex work . officials from the cambodian embassy in japan alerted japanese authorities last month after one of the women contacted them via facebook . so vandy , deputy director of the interior ministry ’ s anti - human trafficking department , said officials were pursuing traffickers in cambodia who had recruited the women and got them into japan . “ they colluded with each other to traffic these people , ” he said . according to japanese media reports , police in gunma prefecture , northwest of tokyo , arrested three suspects with alleged ties to two hospitality venues in the ikaho hot springs area of shibukawa and nearby numata . hisao watanabe , 44 , the manager of a brothel in shibukawa , his employee tomoyuki goto , 32 , and a thai woman , 44 , who manages gold bar in numata , are accused of hiring the women , aged 20 to 36 , without proper visas . the suspects are also being investigated for coercing the women into sex work . according to tbs news , one of the cambodian victims told police : “ i was recruited by a japanese man who told me i could earn $3 , 000 a month in a waitressing job . ” authorities are seeking the man , who allegedly recruited the women in cambodia , as an accomplice to the trafficking , tbs reported . the shibukawa parlor is described by the sankei newspaper as being located in the center of the hot springs ’ quaint commercial district . a small shop vendor nearby told the newspaper : “ they seem to have been accommodating tour groups . ” the numata bar , meanwhile , is “ located close to the district office ” and was established about two years ago , sankei reported . mr . watanabe and mr . goto have reportedly admitted to violating immigration laws , while the thai woman has denied the allegations . gunma prefectural police declined to comment on sunday , and calls to numbers listed online for the two venues went unanswered . one of seven women was returned to cambodia at the beginning of this month for treatment for an unspecified illness , while the other six have remained behind in the care of embassy officials while they assist japanese authorities in their investigations , mr . vandy said . “ the japanese court needs them as plaintiffs . when the japanese court has solved this case , they will send the women back to cambodia , ” he said . mr . vandy , who previously asked reporters not to publish information about the case to avoid jeopardizing ongoing investigations , said the women had been angered by international media coverage—which had withheld their names—and were concerned about the impact it would have on their reputations . “ they did not want the newspapers to publish articles about them because it impacts their honor and reputation , ” he said . “ they want to change [jobs] when they return to live in cambodia . ” ( additional reporting by michael dickison ) [email protected]© 2017 , all rights reserved . 
__label__no_relevant deadline passes but beachside eviction still imminent deadline passes but beachside eviction still imminentthe two - kilometer stretch of white sand that curves along translucent sea in an idyllic bay near sihanoukville was still living up to its picture - perfect mystique on sunday , with couples strolling hand - in - hand beneath the cloudless sky as others slouched in cushioned chairs soaking up the sun . the tranquility tourists were blithely absorbing on otres beach – often described as the most captivating beach on cambodia ’ s coastline – was not , however , shared by those who served them . the owners and staff of about 70 beachfront venues had been waiting for bulldozers to arrive to demolish their businesses that day . but the bulldozers did not show up . “ no one knows what ’ s happening , ” an employee at everythang guesthouse said . “ there ’ s been a delay . nobody knows anything . ” confusion has been rife since february 13 , when the provincial government issued a one - month eviction notice to all venues within 50 metersof the waterline on two sections of otres beach – known locally as otres 1 and 2 – and neighboring ochheuteal beach , the busiest beach in the province . the eviction has long been rumored – the land the venues leased is state - owned – but the march 13 deadline from the provincial government hit the tightly knit community of bar , restaurant and guesthouse owners like a fist . douglass mccoll , vice president of the sihanoukville tourism association , said there had been a failure to inform those affected . “ the whole thing has been characterized by a lack of information , ” he explained . “ no one knows what ’ s going on . ” up to 1 , 000 jobs will be lost if the venues are shut , according to some estimates . “ it ’ s no small problem . it ’ s a big problem , ” said long huon , a waiter at min beachclub , which was built in 2003 . staff and owners of venues have traveled to phnom penh to seek prime minister hun sen ’ s intervention . “ we tried three times to go to phnom penh , [but] the prime minister won ’ t give any answers , ” said mr . huon . “ we ’ ve been upset for one month , but no one will fight the government . we ’ ll try to talk , talk , talk , but if they bring a lot of police we can ’ t do anything . ” mr . long has been working at min min for four years and does not know what he will do if the beach club is razed . staff may have to migrate to thailand or other countries to find jobs , or work at garment factories , he said . “ what else can we do ? ” the community at otres has grown tight knit since backpackers discovered the idyllic bay in the late 1990s and began arriving en masse within a few years . but despite their closeness , they have conflicting stories about the deadline . some expect the eviction to occur in a few days , others believe the reprieve will last until khmer new year , or until what is called “ low season ” for tourists on the coast . some say it will not happen for a couple of years . they are wrong , according to preah sihanouk governor yun min . “ when the time is proper we will carry out [the eviction] because the deadline has passed , ” he told khmer times yesterday . “ those who remain on the beach are just persistent . there has been no official decision to delay [the eviction] until after khmer new year like some media have reported . ” “ it ’ s going to be a pr disaster , ” mr . mccoll said . “ i don ’ t think the tourists are particularly aware of it yet . there will be people turning up . the government has always said sihanoukville ’ s beaches are the best in cambodia ; otres is the pilot . “ it would be good to get a little more clarity so hotel keepers could tell their guests , to avoid a firestorm on social media , ” mr . mccoll added . the government ’ s decision to close down the shops along the waterfront is part of a larger move to conserve and develop cambodia ’ s coastline , and is strictly an environmental move , according nay sally , project assistant at the vice - chief office of foreign affairs in preah sihanouk . “ to remain a ‘beautiful bay ’ member , cambodia has to meet certain standards , ” ms . nay explained , referring to the designation given cambodia ’ s beaches in 2011 by the bays of the world club . “ we realize there ’ s an impact , both to big businesses and the small tourist industry . but we have to think about the future . in five years , the sand will be getting brown , there will be pollution in the water . it ’ s an environmental motivation . ” there will be no delay , ms . nally said . “ the government will remove the huts and restaurants at ochheuteal beach on tuesday , this is the first step . the next step is otres next week , ” she said on monday . although preah sihanouk is first , the government plans to expand the beach clean - up to other provinces , but has yet to announce which will be next . the eviction will not only affect the otres businesses on the shoreline , but also those that run on the opposite side of the dirt road that runs parallel to the sea . although they are safe from the bulldozers , few of the owners are happy with what is planned for the other side of the road . “ if the other businesses are gone , it will be a little slower . there won ’ t be as many people as before . i don ’ t know what tourists will think when they see an empty beach , ” said loose aaron , manager at wish you were here guesthouse . “ the problem is when the beach is gone , nice big hotels will come – chinese hotels . i think it will happen in a couple of years . ” while no clear leader has emerged to oppose the eviction , some have pled individually with the government . “ we want the government to give us a standard plan for our restaurant so we can make a living , ” said koy chhay , the owner of bamboo bistro on otres 2 . mr . koy , along with the owners of six other venues , has traveled twice to phnom penh to speak with national government officials . he has also visited provincial hall daily since the eviction notice arrived on february 13 to speak to officials . “ we don ’ t have a solution yet . but i ’ m not afraid . i will not sign up for any refund . we all have lived here for more than 10 years . we ’ re not stealing from anybody . we want the government to give us a fair solution . if the government [evicts us] what can we do ? where will we go ? ” ek vithean , a representative of beachside vendors facing eviction , is more defiant . “ i will not move whatever the cost , ” he said . – additional reporting by pav suy . 
__label__relevant call to decriminalize sex work likely to fall on deaf ears call to decriminalize sex work likely to fall on deaf earssex workers remain among the most vulnerable individuals in the world today , amnesty international said . sex workers remain among the most vulnerable individuals in the world today , amnesty international said . photo : anne holmesphnom penh ( khmer times ) – sex workers in cambodia work in a legal no - man ’ s land . though selling sex is illegal according to a human trafficking law passed in 2008 , police rarely enforce the law , turning a blind eye in return for bribes or sexual favors , according to advocacy groups working on the issue . brothels were shut down in a 2008 crackdown as a result of the law , but many sex workers continue to work in karaoke parlors or on public sidewalks . amnesty international says the criminalization of sex work only puts these women in greater danger of abuse from clients or police . in a landmark decision tuesday , amnesty ’ s decision - making body , the international council meeting , voted for a resolution supporting “ the full decriminalization of all aspects of consensual sex work . ” the resolution has no legal power , but amnesty international will begin lobbying governments , including cambodia ’ s , to legalize the sex trade . the decision has stoked controversy , with supporters saying it will make sex workers safer , while opponents say it will only clear the way for pimps to exploit their workers and strengthen the sex trade . outside the law “ sex workers are one of the most marginalized groups in the world , who in most instances face constant risk of discrimination , violence and abuse . our global movement paved the way for adopting a policy for the protection of the human rights of sex workers , ” amnesty international secretary general salil shetty said in a statement yesterday . those who work directly with sex workers say keeping their trade illegal increases the risk of abuse . teo sichan , program director for the cambodia women ’ s development agency , has worked with phnom penh sex workers for years , walking through tuol kork neighborhood at night handing out condoms and teaching them about safe sex . she said the passage of a 2008 anti - trafficking law led to a crackdown on brothels , forcing many sex workers to begin “ freelancing ” in karaoke parlors , nightclubs , or riskier venues such as public parks and streets . many of the women take their clients back to a guesthouse , but it is easier for them to be abducted , abused , or worse . “ independent work on the streets is more dangerous , ” ms . sichan said . on july 31 , six construction workers confessed to raping and murdering a 26 - year - old karaoke parlor worker in pur senchey neighborhood . one of them waited until she left the venue , then paid her $10 to accompany him back to a temporary shelter at the construction site . once there , he and the other men raped her and then beat her to death , according to their testimony in court . blurred linespolice can be part of the problem , ms . sichan said . “ the police always control the public areas , and they identify who the sex workers are , but most of the time they ignore them , ” she explained . sometimes , though , some police take advantage of prostitutes , threatening them with detention if they don ’ t pay a bribe , she added . “ sometimes the officer is good , sometimes the officer is bad . ” it is an open secret that women are sometimes forced to pay police part of their earnings to keep working on the street . “ the sex workers have to pay the police $10 to get out of the detention centers , ” said chan dyna , technical coordinator of the cambodia prostitute union . other times money isn ’ t enough , and the officers expect sexual favors . despite the exploitation , sex workers do not resort to legal action : “ most of them don ’ t want to use legal assistance against police , ” ms . sichan said , “ because they are afraid . ” some prostitutes have even stopped carrying condoms , since the condoms could be used as evidence against them in court if police arrest them . this puts them at greater risk of contracting sexually transmitted infections ( stis ) . when they are arrested , the women are sent to temporary detention centers like prey speu , which ms . sichan described as little better than prison . they sometimes also receive vocational training from ngos to help them find a new career , but ms . sichan said the arrests and vocational training do little to help women break out of the sex trade . “ they go back to work , ” ms . sichan said . “ nobody can stop them . because of the economic crisis they have to work to support their families . ” amnesty ’ s call unlikely to be heededif amnesty international successfully lobbies cambodia to legalize the sex trade , it would make the country ’ s sex - worker legislation as permissive as the netherlands . ngos that work closely with sex workers say it would be a welcome change . “ the law should not forbid [sex workers] from doing business – it should educate them about stis , ” said ms . dyna . nevertheless , ngo workers say it is unlikely that amnesty international ’ s new policy will lead the country to adopt more lenient punishments for sex workers . ms . sichan said there is strong cultural prejudice against the sex trade in cambodia . “ with cambodian culture , it is currently impossible for sex work to be legal , ” she said . meanwhile , ngos are working to educate sex workers about safe sex and prevent police from exploiting them . “ now we just lobby the police to understand the situation . ” said ms . sichan . additional reporting by chea takihiro
__label__relevant japanese authorities arrest trio suspected of sex trafficking cambodian authorities are tracking down a network of traffickers after three suspects were arrested in japan over the exploitation of seven cambodian women lured to japan with the promise of waitressing jobs and instead forced into sex work . officials from the cambodian embassy in japan alerted japanese authorities last month after one of the women contacted them via facebook . so vandy , deputy director of the interior ministry ’ s anti - human trafficking department , said officials were pursuing traffickers in cambodia who had recruited the women and got them into japan . “ they colluded with each other to traffic these people , ” he said . according to japanese media reports , police in gunma prefecture , northwest of tokyo , arrested three suspects with alleged ties to two hospitality venues in the ikaho hot springs area of shibukawa and nearby numata . hisao watanabe , 44 , the manager of a brothel in shibukawa , his employee tomoyuki goto , 32 , and a thai woman , 44 , who manages gold bar in numata , are accused of hiring the women , aged 20 to 36 , without proper visas . the suspects are also being investigated for coercing the women into sex work . according to tbs news , one of the cambodian victims told police : “ i was recruited by a japanese man who told me i could earn $3 , 000 a month in a waitressing job . ” authorities are seeking the man , who allegedly recruited the women in cambodia , as an accomplice to the trafficking , tbs reported . the shibukawa parlor is described by the sankei newspaper as being located in the center of the hot springs ’ quaint commercial district . a small shop vendor nearby told the newspaper : “ they seem to have been accommodating tour groups . ” the numata bar , meanwhile , is “ located close to the district office ” and was established about two years ago , sankei reported . mr . watanabe and mr . goto have reportedly admitted to violating immigration laws , while the thai woman has denied the allegations . gunma prefectural police declined to comment on sunday , and calls to numbers listed online for the two venues went unanswered . one of seven women was returned to cambodia at the beginning of this month for treatment for an unspecified illness , while the other six have remained behind in the care of embassy officials while they assist japanese authorities in their investigations , mr . vandy said . “ the japanese court needs them as plaintiffs . when the japanese court has solved this case , they will send the women back to cambodia , ” he said . mr . vandy , who previously asked reporters not to publish information about the case to avoid jeopardizing ongoing investigations , said the women had been angered by international media coverage—which had withheld their names—and were concerned about the impact it would have on their reputations . “ they did not want the newspapers to publish articles about them because it impacts their honor and reputation , ” he said . “ they want to change [jobs] when they return to live in cambodia . ” ( additional reporting by michael dickison ) [email protected]© 2017 , all rights reserved . 
__label__relevant refuge on margins of society refuge on margins of societyin a dilapidated building nestled in the heart of phnom penh , two slumbering girls lay curled on a mattress in a room shaped like a matchbox . as the door to their room inside a safe house swung open , they remained balled up on their bed , lightly exhaling in unison . the pair are among eight between the ages of eight and 20 who reside at the cambodian women ’ s development agency ’ s ( cdwa ) safe shelter , created to protect up to 20 women and girls ata time from trafficking , rape and gender - based violence . “ if they weren ’ t here , they would probably be at high risk of more violence or sleeping on the streets . women and girls needs safe havens like this in cambodia , ” said fiona mann , 26 , an advocacy and policy adviser for cwda . pich * was six years old when her father died of hepatitis , leaving her mother with five young children to feed and no money for groceries . pich ’ s mother sold her as collateral to a loan shark , who then , in turn , forced her to work in a local market until she was 12 . now 19 , she has just hit her seventh year living in the safe house and hopes to start university next year . when she ’ s not lending an extra hand at the shelter , volunteering for a local youth - oriented ngo is one way she loves to spend her days . narrowed optionsabused and trafficked women have limited options in a country where the officials charged with upholding the laws can sometimes be the perpetrators of violence , and sex workers are particularly vulnerable to acts of violence from state authorities in government - run safe houses . a human rights watch ( hrw ) report from 2010 noted : “ women and girls involved in sex work face beatings , rape , sexual harassment , extortion , arbitrary arrest and detention , forced labour , and other cruel and degrading treatment at the hands of police , public park security guards , governmental officials , and those working in the centers and offices run by the ministry of social affairs , veterans , and youth rehabilitation ( mosavy ) . ” since the report ’ s release , the government has shuttered three of its rehabilitation centres , but according to a second report released this month by hrw , titled they treat us like animals , the kingdom ’ s drug detention centres are still locking up individuals deemed “ undesirable ” by the government , including sex workers , with a complete lack of due process . evidence of abused cambodian women with no faith in the authorities can be found throughout the capital ’ s safe - houses . but it ’ s not just women . sophea * , a 26 - year - old gay man , is no stranger to harassment . many of his friends , both men and women , have spent unwarranted time in pre - trial detention without legal representation on charges of public incitement . “ we call each other if we get in trouble , ” sophea said , adding that he had routinely been picked up and harassed simply for congregating with friends in the wat phnom area . social discrimination against the lgbqt population in cambodia is rampant , according to sophea , a theme that often begins at home . “ parents and relatives often ask gays and transgender people to leave home . sometimes , we can ’ t go to school . many of us rent a large room and live together to support one another , ” sophea said , noting that he had lived this way in poipet and phnom penh . if sex workers or gay people get hustled out of the wat , or if someone is held for too long in designated buildings paid for by the ministry of women ’ s affairs – which ignored repeated requests to comment for this article – they self - organise by calling their friends . “ we can bring food and water for them if they are suspected sex workers and being held ” for various stretches of time , sophea said . the community is also uniquely vulnerable to sexual crimes . a un - backed study released this september found one in five cambodian men have committed rape , but more than 44 per cent of them have never faced any legal consequences . the same study revealed that in cambodia gang rape has the second - highest prevalence in the region . bauk , a khmer word meaning “ plus ” in the context of the kingdom ’ s sex industry , often involves a man purchasing a sex worker who is then passed among a group of friends , according to male and female sex workers interviewed for this article . part of the problem in cracking down on such crimes is that trafficking and sex work are rarely classified separately in cambodia – making it difficult for sex workers to advocate for their rights . cheryl overs , a researcher and human rights activist from melbourne who specialises in hiv prevention and care programs for male , female and transgender sex workers in developing countries , has linked that joint categorisation to a lack of protection for workers . “ the important story in cambodia is the conflation of sexual exploitation and sex work that has led to the elimination of the term and the concept ‘sex worker ’ and ensured that sex workers have no voice at all in cambodia , ” overs wrote in an email in november . by pairing sexual exploitation and sex work , essentially invalidating sex work as a viable means of earning money , many argue that everyone becomes a “ victim , ” she explained . that attitude can often lead to attacking the surface symptoms rather than the root problems , she said . so while a press - friendly “ brothel bust ” may save one or two people living in hopeless conditions , the endemic reasons women and children end up in those situations in the first place are largely ignored . the kingdom ’ s implementation of the law on the suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation ( lhtse ) in 2008 renders all forms of prostitution illegal . a downside of the law was that it had driven the sex industry underground , making sex workers more vulnerable to abuse , overs said . programs launched in the wake of the law ’ s passage have also come under attack for not delivering what was intended . a sex worker in tuol kork puts on stockings in preparation for a night ’ s work in phnom penh . sovan philongenter the unionswith their work often conflated with trafficking , and sexual crimes against women increasingly widespread , some sex workers have sought protection by unionising . cwda – which hosts the shelter that is home to pich and seven others – doubles as the parent organisation of the cambodian prostitutes union ( cpu ) . the cpu was formed to protect the occupational health and safety of entertainment workers , including “ women who sell sex directly and indirect sex workers who work in massage parlours , beer gardens and karaoke bars , ” according to cwda ’ s last annual report . women with little to no cash can still become members of the cpu , because the union charges no membership fee , says keo sichan , the program coordinator of the group ’ s women ’ s health and hiv / aids program . while they aren ’ t eligible to live in the safe house , which is reserved for those in danger of trafficking or violence , entertainment workers – including those living with hiv / aids in daun penh , russey keo and tuol kork districts – are provided education about safe working practices and the law , according to sichan . and the cpu is not alone . in 2000 , five ngos helped the kingdom ’ s sex workers establish a collective of women working in the sex industry , known as the women ’ s network for unity ( wnu ) . today , membership includes more than 6 , 000 people across seven provinces , according to malis * , a member and former president . this figure , however , has not been independently verified . while local ngos were key to the establishment of the union , today , it is self - governed because of members ’ intimate knowledge of the working conditions sex workers confront day to day . “ we are the ones experiencing domestic violence and rape , so we want to run the organisation ourselves , ” she said . malis , who served as president for three years , joined the collective in 2001 after an ngo worker recruited her from a massage parlour in svay pak commune , an area notorious for brothels . today , she earns about $15 a day plying for her own customers on the street . “ we must help one another , ” she said . “ teaching sex workers about where they can go if they are hurt is one way we try and do that . ” educating wnu members about sexual health and legal rights is another avenue the collective uses to alleviate the dangers sex workers face . each sub - section of the union has an elected representative that serves for three years – transgender sex workers and gay and lesbian sex workers are all represented by their own elected leader who represents their interests during biannual meetings . the wnu charges a nominal membership fee , used to offset healthcare costs if workers are hurt on the job . if a member is in need of a blood test for hiv / aids , needs medical attention or an abortion , the union helps facilitate access to these services at the japanese and khmer - soviet friendship hospitals , malis said . “ if we ’ re concerned a member has hiv / aids , we send them to rhac , and if they want an abortion , we send them to marie stopes , ” she said , adding that an abortion costs around $30 at marie stopes cambodia [msi] but members of the organisation only have to pay $7 - $10 . ( stefanie wallach , country director for msi cambodia , said that while she was unaware of any special relationship between the organisation and the wnu , the price of medical care was at the discretion of each centre director based on an individual ’ s needs , and it was not policy to give discounts to sex workers or their unions . ) mara * represents the wnu ’ s transgender sex workers , of which she says there are more than 100 members in eight provinces , and began working in the sex industry in 1993 to help her mother provide for her two young nieces – her family has no idea that the money used to buy their food is earned on the streets . dressing like a woman comes at a cost when mara ’ s customers discover she has male genitalia . her face betrayed emotion as she explained how angry and drunk customers often beat her after discovering what she looks like naked . still , despite the dangers , living without that income was an even more frightening prospect . “ before i was a sex worker , i used to sell oranges and their juice for about 500 riel near independence monument . but things are different now . everything costs so much . ” * the names of interviewees have been changed to protect their identities . 
__label__relevant inside phnom penh ' s massage parlours the street butterflies – inside phnom penh ’ s massage parloursin cambodia , prostitution is illegal but prevalent , which means sexual workers conduct their business in secret . they have been working behind the scenes , including under the cover of night clubs , ktvs , cafes and restaurants and even barber shops and beauty salons . but , how about those working day and night in the small massage parlours on the street for a small fee ? what does their life look like behind the veil ? taing rinith goes undercover to document the life of the “ day butterflies ” in phnom penh . during this mission , he hears the stories of poverty , struggle and violence – all for the sake of survival and their families . it was just after noon when i reached a decrepit , hole - in - wall house on street 430 . in front of it stands a dusty sign announcing “ coining , cupping and massage – 10 , 000 riel ” . four scantily dressed women were sitting on two long sofas in the house , putting on make - up and watching thai soap opera on their phones . i went in , and said i wanted a massage . one of the women , probably in her 30s or 40s , looked at me and asked me to choose one of them . i chose her . the woman got up and led me to a small room on the second floor . on the way , i can see the dusty floor and greyed - with - age wall . once a rat scampered past , and another time i dodged stepping on a cockroach . if one is to search for massage parlours in cambodia , the destinations are mostly clean and luxurious shops in the heart of phnom penh , such as those near the independence monument . yet , small parlours on the street , like the one i am in right now , are less likely to be on the net , although they are not really an unusual sight . in fact , there are seven - to - eight of such shops on street 430 alone . in the room on the second floor , there was no bed but instead a mattress on the floor and on it lies a pillow with a flower motif . ahya , as the woman wanted to be known , asked me to lie on the bed and started massaging my back but after a short while she paused to answer a phone call from her mother who lives in prey veng . ahya ’ s mother said her niece , whom she adopted , just had a traffic accident and she needed money for the medical bill . ahya said she did not have any right now , but added she would earn some from her “ client ” . then she asked me whether i want to do “ something else ” . “ i charge 5 dollars for using my hand and 10 dollars for using my mouth , ” she told me . “ everything will cost you 15 dollars , including the protection . ” instead , i came clean , told her i am a journalist who only wished to interview her , and she granted it with no curtains drawn . ahya , 33 , left prey veng for phnom penh five years ago to work in a garment factory after divorcing her “ lazy and drunkard ” husband , leaving her two children and one orphaned niece under the care of her mother . however , she could not support her family on her salary as a factory worker . then , some friends introduced her to her current job in a street massage parlour . “ four of us rent the house for our business , and jointly pay the rent of 500 dollars per month , ” she said . ahya says at first she only provided massage and coining services to male clients , which fetches only $300 - $400 per month . before long , her friends wised her up to earning twice as much and in some good months even more than that by providing “ what men want ” . “ of course , as a khmer woman , i don ’ t enjoy what i am doing , but i need money to feed my family , ” said ahya who was close to tears . “ it is the only way for me to keep my children in school . i have to do this job because i did not have the chance to study when i was young . ” ahya says most of her clients are workers or tuk tuk drivers , who usually come on their lunch break , but sometimes she receives teenage boys who “ want to taste the first sexual experience ” . on a good day , she could lap up to five clients , but she says earnings are less than the young , gorgeous women working in the nightlife area . “ i am not young or beautiful like them , and i know i will no longer make money when i got older , ” ahya says . “ i am saving money now so that i can open a business later . ” lida ( another moniker ) , another street masseuse at a nameless shop in takhmao , says she also provides sexual favours , to mostly truck or taxi drivers who go past her shop , but only when she needed extra money . she keeps her deviations secret from her husband , a construction worker . “ people can criticise us , calling what we are doing a deviation in society , something that a khmer woman should not do , ” lida says . “ go on , they can call us what they want . but , those people do not feed me and my family . ” “ once , the wife of a client caught him coming to me . she hit me on the face and called me a ‘slut ’ . back home , my husband asked what happened to me , and i told him i had a traffic accident . ” of course , not all street masseuses provide sexual acts . there are those who only give coining , cupping and perhaps some basic massage . one of them , kouch theary , 29 , says she has never crossed the line , not once . however , some of her clients have treated her as a “ prostitute ” . “ some clients ask me to sleep with them , but i always says ‘no ’ , ” theary confides . “ some even molested me . but , i always tell them i only help relieve their body aches , and nothing more . ” a risky or even dangerous jobboth ahya and lida said there are many occasions where uncouth clients do not pay their bills . although it is a monetary loss , they cannot seek help from police because their way of making a living is not right in the eyes of the country ’ s laws . “ if we go to the police , we could be arrested , ” ahya says . “ we don ’ t have money to give them in exchange for our release . ” “ once i was even blackmailed by a man who claimed he was a police officer , ” lida says . “ he forced me to have sex with him for free , or he would come back with the force to close down my shop . i was not sure he was really an officer , what choice did i have ? ” police raids on the occasional massage parlours are not unusual in cambodia , especially in urban hubs such as phnom penh , siem reap and sihanoukville . in fact , reports in the local media are quite frequent . when a shop gets raided , everyone would be arrested , and condoms are usually seized as “ evidence ” . anyway , such businesses still exist everywhere . apart from non - paying clients and police raids , the street masseur , no matter that they are involved in sexual acts or not , have to face sexual abuse and violence every day . in february last year , sanchez shawn daniel , an american tourist , was arrested for killing a 27 - year - old masseuse in kampot after she refused to have sex with him . two months later , another masseuse who work from her rented house in chak angre leu was killed by her jealous boyfriend . “ all these ladies were working behind closed doors , and no one can know what happens behind these doors , ” says ros sopheap , the executive director of gender and development of cambodia ( gdc ) . all the risks , sopheap explains , is a result of the criminalisation of prostitution , although it has been called “ the oldest profession in the world ” and the kingdom has not been spared , for centuries . “ the concept of providing sexual services has been seen as something against the social norms and values of khmer women , ” she adds . “ but , it is the matter of demand and supply , which is has not been accepted by the public and the government . ” a unaids estimate in 2016 disclosed that there are around 34 , 000 prostitutes in cambodia , many of whom are vietnamese . the law on suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation , which was enacted in 2008 , punishes the managing of prostitutes and the maintaining of a brothel , as well as a mere act of exchanging sex for money . meanwhile , the women ’ s network for unity , established in 2000 , has been lobbying for the amendment of the 2008 law for legal and human rights and better working conditions for sex workers . “ the law ( on suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation ) does not only affect the sexual workers ’ businesses but also their well - being , mainly by taking away their chance to learn how to defend themselves against stds and bad clients , ” sophea added . in the meantime , one of the street masseuses i spoke to revealed she got hepatitis b from one of his client . “ wherever they work , in a massage parlour , at a ktv or in an open brothel , these workers need better rights for a better life , ” sopheap says . “ to achieve this , everyone has to change their attitude about treating them as deviants and work together to assist them . ” 
__label__relevant a look into the lives of the kingdom ’ s tech - savvy night angels a look into the lives of the kingdom ’ s tech - savvy night angelsa man looks at pictures posted by sex workers on facebook . with the advent of technology , sex workers are now moving online to expand their clientele . a man looks at pictures posted by sex workers on facebook . with the advent of technology , sex workers are now moving online to expand their clientele . kt / pann rachanafrom selling clothes to cosmetics , e - commerce has quickly become the go - to money - making venture in the kingdom . the improvement in internet access and innovations in smartphone technology has opened doors for cambodians to advertise their products and services on social media . unfortunately , the growth of online retail has welcomed some unexpected visitors , with the entry of the oldest profession in the world : prostitution . last week , in a facebook group with some 80 , 000 members , a female member posted a picture of herself , scantily dressed , with her face carefully hidden behind a smiley emoticon . “ who wants to have a good time ? ” she wrote in khmer . “ i need money . send me a private message now . for those in phnom penh only , ” she said , not bothering to hide the innuendo behind her invitation . unsurprisingly , her post turned the heads of many of the male members , as they wrote comments asking about her charges . with the intent of getting more details about the attention - grabbing business , i sent her a private message and set an appointment under the guise of interest . “ it will cost you $35 an hour . if you ’ re willing , you can come to my apartment in tuol kork [district] , ” she replied . her apartment building is located in the poorer part of the district . she greeted me with warmth as soon as she opened the door . not five minutes in , she asked me to take my clothes off . she said i needed to hurry because she had another client coming by . not wanting to bare my body to a stranger , i came clean and told her i was a journalist who came with the intent of interviewing her . she refused at first , as i expected , but eventually agreed under two conditions : first , questions about her past were off - limits and second , i had to pay for her time . knowing lilyshe wanted to be called lily . lily used to stand along the streets of wat phnom , waiting for a client to approach her and whisk her away to a nondescript motel . with her are other women also hoping to grab the attention of a moneyed man looking for immediate gratification . her profession earned her about $500 a month although a third of it went to her pimp , whom she said “ protects ” her . “ at wat phnom , i was constantly worried about police raids . it was also very difficult to get a client , ” she said . the anxiety from the risks of being exposed to a sudden arrest took a toll on lily . so , when a friend suggested she bring her business online , she didn ’ t hesitate to follow through . the move proved fruitful as she earned up to $2 , 000 a month – significantly higher than what she used to earn . “ all i had to do was create a page where i constantly posted my pictures for the clients to see , ” she said . “ men are always looking for our services . ” the men she serviced always came in different garbs . some of them were young and in high school uniforms , while others were ageing wearing hawaiian shirts . most of them were too shy to go to brothels , afraid someone would recognise them . “ of course , i am not proud of what i ’ m doing but this is a business , ” she said . “ i am a working girl . ” introducing thidathida is another phnom penh - based sex worker who relies on facebook and bigo live , a popular live video - streaming app , to make a living . a divorced mother of two who also supports her elderly mother , thida struggles to make ends meet despite earning about $600 a month . “ this apps help me a lot . they offer functions which enhance your appearance , like making your skin fairer , ” she said . “ men are only interested in physical features . ” “ not all men who message me want my service . some of them are lonely men who simply want to talk about sex because they cannot afford my fee . of course , there are also weird ones who send me pictures of their private parts and ask me to have sex with them for free , ” thida noted . the plight of sex workersdespite the money they make , both thida and lily , as well as most sex workers , recognise the risks their profession poses . having to deal with strangers every day , none of them knows what kind of client they could run into . “ once , a man paid me $150 to spend a whole night with him in his apartment , ” said one of them . “ when i got there , six men were waiting for me . they would not let me go unless i have sex with all of them . i had no choice . the only luck i had was they all used condoms . ” “ one of my clients filmed me on his phone while we were having sex then proceeded to share the video with his friends . it eventually went public on a porn website , ” recounted the other . despite the rape and abuse both had gone through , the two women know they cannot ask for police assistance without being at risk of being arrested as well , having a profession which is illicit in the country . despite being banned , prostitution in the kingdom remains prevalent . a 2016 un report disclosed around 34 , 000 prostitutes work in cambodia , many of whom are vietnamese . the law on suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation , which was enacted in 2008 , punishes everyone involved in prostitution , from the procurers and brothel owners to the sex workers themselves . ros sopheap , executive director of gender and development of cambodia , said the criminalisation of prostitution only further victimises the sex worker . “ i called for the legalisation of prostitution in cambodia because it is the only way to make it safe for the workers and protect them from all kinds of abuse , ” said ms sopheap . “ the provision of sexual services has been seen as something going against the social norms and values expected from khmer women . but [prostitution] is a trade business between two adults – a concept yet to be accepted by the public and the government , ” she said . meanwhile , con artists have taken advantage of online prostitution at the expense of unsuspecting men . according to the victims , some swindlers , pretending to be sex workers or pimps , trick the men into paying first through mobile banking apps before they could “ avail ” the service . they then run away with the money , leaving the victims penniless and unsatisfied . “ once , when i caught a swindler who did that , he threatened to send screenshots of our facebook conversations to my wife , whom he found through my account , ” said a male victim who asked to be anonymous . ms sopheap argued legalisation and regulation of prostitution are needed to control sex trade in cambodia . “ otherwise , both the worker and the client will suffer , ” she said . colonel keo thea , phnom penh anti - human trafficking department chief , could not be reached for comment . 
__label__relevant siem reap woman arrested over child prostitution a 23 - year - old woman was detained for procuring children for the purposes of prostitution and the exploitation of child labour last month , according to siem reap provincial authorities . suppliedsiem reap woman arrested over child prostitutionthe siem reap provincial court on tuesday detained a 23 - year - old woman at the provincial prison for procuring children for the purposes of prostitution and the exploitation of child labour in may . siem reap provincial court spokesman yin srang told the post on tuesday that court prosecutor keut vannareth had issued a warrant to detain the suspect​ for forcing five girls to be street beggars and sleep with foreigners . srang said provincial anti - human trafficking and juvenile protection officers arrested the suspect on monday while she was staying in siem reap district ’ s svay dangkum commune . siem reap provincial police chief tith narong told the post on tuesday that the woman was detained after a court warrant was issued by siem reap provincial court prosecutor vannareth on monday . “ she was sent to court immediately after the police arrested her , ” he said . narong said after the suspect was arrested , experts questioned her and wrote down her answers in a report to be sent to the provincial court . he said the five children were sent to the provincial department of social affairs to be cared for . “ we only arrested one person , who was the mastermind . nobody else was involved . we have already investigated and questioned her . she was the only one who instructed the five children , ” he said . a local media employee , who wished to remain anonymous , indicated that the five girls were forced to become beggars at phsar chas market , working from 7pm until 3am . the source said that they were told to meet by a wooden bridge near ta prohm hotel and told to pay 10 , 000 riel to 20 , 000 riel ( $2 . 50 to $5 ) for their accommodation . if the children did not do as the suspect asked , the source said , she would lash out at them and force them to take drugs . the source said if any foreigners wanted to sleep with the children , the suspect would act as translator and take commission fees from them . according to article 30 of the law on suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation , a person who , directly or through an intermediary , manages , exploits , operates or finances an establishment of prostitution shall be punished with imprisonment from two to five years . 
__label__relevant phnom penh sex workers stuck between prey speu and the street phnom penh sex workers stuck between prey speu and the streeteight years after cambodia passed a strict – and contentious – anti - trafficking law , street sex workers continue to suffer detainment and alleged abuse at the hands of clients and police . things need to change , say researchers , human rights defenders and the women themselves . three months ago , leakhena * , a sex worker , was walking alone on a dark street near wat phnom when she was stopped and pushed into a daun penh district police van . it was late . she wasn ’ t “ looking for customers ” , she says . and she certainly wasn ’ t talking to anyone . there were five other women inside the van , which was driven directly to the police station . later , the group was taken to prey speu – the notorious detention centre on the outskirts of phnom penh designated for “ re - educating ” the homeless , the mentally ill and those who sell sex . “ in [prey speu] , they treated us as if we were prisoners who had committed a serious crime , ” leakhena says . “ we lived in a room with 50 people . at meal times , the guards unlocked the door , but they walked between us with batons . we couldn ’ t take a bath . ” she stayed only one week . then , like convicts , she and six other detainees broke a window and climbed out , escaping before dawn . leakhena returned to the street almost immediately – she couldn ’ t afford not to . now 30 years old , she turned to sex work four years ago after she divorced her husband . she has two young sons and needs to support them . “ we get $5 per customer , ” she says . “ if i worked as a cleaner in a restaurant , i could not make $5in a day . ” but she abandons her work if she gets a glimpse of the cops . “ every time i see the police – plainclothes or in uniform – i walk back home , ” she says . “ i will never let the police catch me again . ” no stranger to the lawleakhena ’ s arrest is common enough . wat phnom , well - known as a place men go to pay for sex , is a frequent – and sometimes the only – stop on police “ roundups ” that often end in detention . in the latest street sweep earlier this month , 15 sex workers were picked up in the area . of the five female sex workers interviewed this week by post weekend , all had been detained and none was informed of their accused crime . both the director of the city ’ s department of social affairs , which runs prey speu , and the centre ’ s chief declined to comment on the current number of sex workers or others currently detained there . public solicitation of sex is illegal in cambodia , as is profiting from prostitution , recruiting someone into the trade , acting as an intermediary or interfering with “ prevention ” ( all defined as “ procurement ” ) . the act of buying sex is not . in cambodia , it is most often sex workers – not their clients – who have suffered at the hands of the authorities . a sex worker speaks to two potential clients near wat phnom . athena zelandoniiunder the khmer rouge , prostitution was punishable by death . and during the vietnamese - backed people ’ s republic of kampuchea , sex workers were arrested and sent to a former khmer rouge prison on kandal province ’ s koh kor island – which remained , like prey speu , a detention centre for “ undesirables ” until 2008 . the current solicitation law is just one part of the law on the suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation , backed by unicef , and enacted in 2008 . it was intended to stem cambodia ’ s trafficking problem . the law led to a crackdown on once - booming brothels and red - light districts , but it also drew a swift backlash . its enforcement varied wildly , and could conflate trafficking with sex work , critics said at the time . raids and arrests drove sex work underground , threatening women ’ s health and safety . allegations of police abuse skyrocketed . the criticism has continued . “ the 2008 anti - trafficking law has been a human rights disaster for sex workers who walk the streets , ” says phil robertson , deputy asia director for human rights watch . “ the police have taken a badly written law with a broad definition of ‘soliciting ’ and turned it to their advantage . ” the first step , he argues , is to repeal the solicitation provision . but by the books , solicitation is illegal both by the human - trafficking law and the revised criminal code , which was passed one year later . the punishments differ : 3 , 000 to 10 , 000 riel ( about $0 . 75 - $2 . 50 ) and one to six days imprisonment in the former ; or 5 , 000 to 50 , 000 riel ( about $1 . 25 - $12 . 50 ) under the criminal code . in cambodia , laws occasionally overlap , and have rarely been repealed following the introduction of the criminal code , according to phnom penh - based legal analyst and human rights consultant billy tai . “ [in cases of overlap] , there ’ s no certainty within the law and no clear language , so we really just don ’ t know , ” he says . “ it leaves room for doubt . ” that ’ s not to mention pre - existing penal codes , from which provisions are still used . one rarely invoked law , which forbids adultery , has been brought up by politicians – but not by the courts – in the ongoing prostitution case involving acting cnrp president kem sokha , a case that is widely seen as politically motivated . arbitrary enforcementon the street , the law seems arbitrary . there are bribes , not fines , and some women walk a thin line between existence and “ solicitation ” . “ [sex workers] don ’ t even know what the laws governing their actions are , so the police can tell them whatever they want , ” says tai . “ i don ’ t even know if the government officials are up to date on their law , to be honest . ” in practice , police often solicit money from sex workers . among those interviewed by post weekend , the asking price had varied from $20 to $200 – not a few thousand riel . ( some of the women had paid . ) working the streets : increased dangers from customers and police . athena zelandoniiand then there is a decision to make : “ if there ’ s no money to give to the police , they will send us to the centre , ” says somaly * , a 36 - year - old sex worker . while bars , massage parlours or barbershops often operate as fronts for the sex industry – and usually cater to foreigners in addition to cambodians – they don ’ t receive the same treatment from the police . one barbershop brothel shuttered by anti - trafficking police this month had operated without a hitch for nearly a decade . local police had previously asked neighbours not to report the business , the cambodia daily reported at the time . street workers , then , become the target . there are few figures on the number of sex workers in phnom penh , much less a record of how many work on the street . a ministry of health estimate cited in 2010 by human rights watch put the city ’ s total at about 6 , 000 sex workers ; a more informal 2013 estimate reckoned the number of street sex workers was fewer than 1 , 000 . for an informal sense of scale , keo tha , a program officer at women ’ s network for unity ( wnu ) , one of phnom penh ’ s primary sex - worker unions , says her organisation has counted between 500 and 600 women working on the street while distributing condoms . since 2015 , wnu has been involved in the cases of 112 women detained at prey speu . but kasumi nakagawa , a gender - studies researcher who has spent nearly 20 years in phnom penh , conducted a small - scale survey on street sex workers in march , interviewing 31 women . she was struck by their silence – in arrest and in detainment . “ police may not explain anything , they just bring them into the minivan , ” nakagawa says . “ women are silenced due to the authority the police have . . . they understand it ’ s just not worth asking [about] matters under detention . ” it ’ s a phenomenon reflected by the women interviewed this week . “ the police put a gun to my stomach and refused to give us food while we were at the daun penh police station , ” says 34 - year - old channa . “ the police wore casual clothes when they arrested us , ” says somaly . “ they put 14 women on the same bus . ” often , she adds , they rely on motodops in the area to keep watch . transgender women may be targeted based simply on their appearance ; one interviewed by the post at prey speu in june said she had never worked as a sex worker but was arrested while simply walking near wat phnom . and there are other risks : 10 of the 31 women nakagawa interviewed had experienced a gang rape . billy tai says for sex workers , going to the police about rape can result in re - traumatisation , even physically . “ it ’ s not what ’ s in the law , or isn ’ t in the law , ” he says . “ it ’ s just very clear that nothing will happen . ” nearly three - quarters of the women nakagawa interviewed had been arrested , often arbitrarily . “ i met with one woman who was arrested in front of her house , along the railroad , who was eating breakfast , ” she says of the interviewee who suddenly found herself in prey speu . could the ‘swedish model ’ work ? erin handley in a recent report based on a survey of cambodian sex workers , researcher kasumi nakagawa floats the idea of making the purchase of sex – rather than the selling of it – illegal . “ unless clients stop buying sex workers ’ services . . . demands will never be ceased and suppliers for those needs must be punished in an unfair way , ” she writes . it ’ s an idea similar to the so - called “ swedish ” or “ nordic ” model , which attempts to penalise the customer in a bid to cut the demand for commercial sex without punishing women who might be victims of trafficking . but it ’ s a contentious concept . for keo tha , of wnu , fining customers would be detrimental to those who willingly enter sex work , and those who desperately need the money . “ the men will not dare to look for those women because they are afraid of the punishment , ” she says . “ our women could be starved ; they could not earn a living and they would have nothing to do . ” legal analyst billy tai is sympathetic to the idea , saying if the government wanted to ban the sex trade , it should dampen demand , not punish prostitutes . “ if you are going to punish somebody , it should be on the demand side , ” he says . “ they are more culpable . ” he adds that the law in its current state is hypocritical – though its aim is to reduce human trafficking , it expressly punishes the victims of trafficking as well those who willingly work in the sex trade . phil robertson , of human rights watch , agrees that the anti - trafficking law is used to abuse sex workers , but also warns against the swedish model . “ [the model] has pushed the sex trade further into the shadows , made it more dangerous for both sex workers and their customers alike , ” he says . “ criminalising sex between consenting adults is a clear rights violation and an invasion of privacy , and should not be adopted by cambodia . ” police tend to focus on sex workers on the street , not those in bars . athena zelandoniiindefinite detainmentthe problems inside prey speu have been well - documented . keo tha , of wnu , says the average stay for a sex worker at prey speu is about two to three months . for cases of women who are hiv - positive or pregnant , the organisation can submit a letter to the department of social affairs for early release , which takes six weeks to process . and for a response ? “ just 20 days , ” tha says . although little research has been done into condom usage among sex workers in the wake of the 2008 law , critics long feared it would lead to a decrease in use and a rise in sexually transmitted diseases . among sex workers with more than seven clients a week , the hiv rate is 14 per cent , according to 2011 data cited by the unaids cambodia office in the most recent survey focused specifically on sex workers . daily medication is not available inside prey speu , so even those who are able to get out “ early ” may miss dozens of doses , risking resistance to the virus . somaly says she remembers five hiv - positive women in the room with her when she stayed for just a week in 2012 . they weren ’ t allowed access to medication until they became visibly ill , she says . many women who are detained are mothers – including two interviewed this week – or are married with families . according to nakagawa , even the fear of detention shapes parenting . “ they cannot share their sufferings with them , ” she says . “ but they are working for the survival of their children . ” reform plans for prey speu were announced in november , as was a proposed moratorium on street sweeps and a switch to a voluntary admissions system – but little has changed as of yet . mentally ill detainees are being moved to a new centre off - site , says ministry of social affairs spokesperson touch channy . “ now [the doctors] are on standby every day , ” he says . “ unicef cambodia said there is actual reform . ” in the meantime , the centre ’ s continued operations have been widely condemned by civil society organisations on the ground . “ it ’ s the lynchpin of this abusive system , because being sent there is punishment that sex workers and other street people fear , and will pay bribes . . . to avoid , ” says robertson , of human rights watch . “ closing it is not enough – it should be bulldozed . ” at the very least , prey speu ’ s foundations are shaky . of the women post weekend spoke to , two had escaped – both within the past three months . not to mention its inefficiencies . “ women are arrested many times , and i can imagine that the police are tired of arresting the same women again and again , ” nakagawa says with a tinge of irony . billy tai says the problems may run deeper : a corrupt police system , as well as inescapable conservatism when it comes to gender , means sex workers are disproportionately victimised . anti - trafficking ngos often carry out raids themselves or push the police to enforce the anti - trafficking law , he explains . “ it ’ s problematic that police are used to having the work done for them , ” tai says . “ unless you bribe them , it ’ s not likely they ’ ll do something , especially if they ’ re also in on the trade . and there is a gendered morality here : this idea that men can ’ t control their actions , but the law inherently punishes the woman for enticing the man to do what they ’ re told not to . it ’ s just so entrenched . ” as for leakhena , her concerns are with her two sons , now 10 and 16 , who are aware of her profession . “ the [elder] understands that without them i would not do this work… but he told me he wants to change schools because his friends gossip , ” she says softly . “ it is hard for us . ” * names have been changed to protect identities . additional reporting by erin handley . 
__label__relevant secrets of the online call girl secrets of the online call girlgo online on facebook in cambodia and you tend to see people , especially women , selling various products , from fashion clothes to body lotion , on their pages . the improvement in the access to the internet , especially social media , and smartphone technology , has opened doors for users to advertise their products and services . that also applies to the oldest profession in the world : prostitution . taing rinith documents the lives of the sex workers who conduct their business online . they may use fake names here , but their stories are true . last week , on a facebook public group based in cambodia with more than 80 , 000 members , one female member posted a picture of herself . she was scantily dressed ; her face hidden behind a smiley emoticon . “ who wants to have a good time ? ” she wrote in khmer above the pictures . “ i need money now . inbox me now . for those in phnom penh only . ” unsurprisingly , her post instantly grabbed a stream of attention from many male members : their comments asking how much she charges . i gathered my courage and sent her a message , pretending to be interested in order to arrange an appointment with her . “ it will cost you $35 for an hour . if you want it , you can come to my apartment in toul kork , ” she replied , sending a google maps link to make it easy for me to reach her place . i did go to her place ; an apartment building located in a poorer part of the district . lily , as she wanted to be known , is a woman who appears to be in her mid - twenties . as i entered the room , she greeted me warmly before quickly asking me to take off my clothes . she said i needed to hurry because she had another “ client ” due . i confessed i was working for the press and my only wish was to interview her . although ‘lily ’ refused at first , she eventually agreed under two conditions : i must not ask about her past and i had to pay for her time . lily was previously based at wat phnom , in the heart of the kingdom ’ s capital , joining the many other women in the same profession who look for their clients there . she used to earn about $500 per month but had to pay a third of her income to her pimp , “ to protect me ” . “ at wat phnom , i was worried every day about police raids , ” she revealed . “ plus , it was very hard to get clients . ” when a friend introduced her to the idea of bringing the business online , lily ’ s earnings quickly increased . she was soon sometimes making as much as $2 , 000 per month . “ all i needed to do was to create a page and constantly update my pictures to look for clients . men are always looking for our services , ” she explained . lily added that most of her clients , ranging from high - school boys to retirees , are too shy to go to brothels or afraid that someone could recognise them . “ of course , i ’ m not proud of what i am doing , but it is a matter of supply and demand , ” lily admitted . “ i am a working girl . ” “ thida ” is another phnom penh - based sex worker who relies on facebook and bigo live , a popular social video streaming app , to make a living . despite making about $600 a month , the divorced mother finds it hard making end meets , having to support her elderly mother , too . “ these apps have helped me a lot , especially the filters to beautify your face and make your skin clearer , ” thida said . “ men are only interested in these physical features . ” “ not all men who inbox me want my service . some of them are lonely men who simply want to talk about sex because they cannot afford it , ” she added . “ there are also psychos who send me dick pictures and ask me to have sex with them for free . ” despite the money they make , both thida and lily , in common with most of their colleagues , face very real risks . dealing with complete strangers every day is unpredictable and potentially dangerous . “ once a man paid me $150 to spend a whole night with him at his apartment , ” lily recalls . “ when i got there , there were six men waiting for me . they would not let me go unless i had sex with them all . i had no choice , but i guess i was lucky that they all used condoms . recalling another incident , she said , “ one of my clients secretly filmed me with his smartphone while we were making love and shared the video with his friends . it eventually went public on a porn website . ” both of the women could not ask for help from the police because their work has been outlawed by the country . enacted in 2008 , the law on suppression of human trafficking and sexual exploitation punishes the managing of prostitutes and the maintaining of a brothel , as well as the act of exchanging sex for money . however , a 2016 unaids estimate disclosed that there are around 34 , 000 prostitutes in cambodia , many of whom are vietnamese . four years on , the figure may be substantially higher . ros sopheap , the executive director of gender and development of cambodia ( gdc ) , says the criminalisation of prostitution only further victimises the sex worker . “ i called for the legalisation of prostitution in cambodia because it is the only way to make it safe for the workers and protect them from all kinds of abuse , ” she says . “ the concept of providing sexual services has been seen as something against the social norms and values of khmer women , ” she adds . “ but it is the matter of supply and demand , which has not [yet] been accepted by the public and the government . ” good times 2 could not contact keo thea , phnom penh police chief of human trafficking , for comment . meanwhile , con artists have been exploiting the advanced technology and the increase in searches for online sexual services to their advantage . according to the victims , it ’ s common for the swindlers – pretending to be sex workers or their pimps –to ask the customer to send them the money first , through mobile banking apps and then to disappear without a trace . “ once , when i tackled one of these fraudsters , he threatened to send the screenshots of our facebook chat to my wife , after he had discovered my marital status on facebook , ” reveals a male victim , who asked to be anonymous . bearing all of this in mind , ros sopheap argues that a government body and proper legislation and regulation are needed to control prostitution in cambodia , after it is legalised . “ otherwise , both the workers and the clients shall suffer , ” she concludes . 
__label__relevant making it through the night a strong kick in the midsection sent the petite girl flying backwards as she held on tight to the knife that was meant to protect her . she lifted herself off the ground and yelled at the man who had groped her without paying as she brandished the short blade in self - defense . her colleague , 35 - year - old sokna , who only gave her first name , watched from a stone bench four meters away on street 106 and tried to assess the danger . fortunately , this time the customer left after shouting a few unkind curses in the girl ’ s direction . “ no one protects you here , ” ms . sokna said on a recent night at work , wearing neither makeup nor jewelry . seventeen years as a sex worker have taught this full - figured woman dressed in red pajamas a lot about the different types of customers she might encounter . it has also taught her when it might be necessary to pull out a weapon in self - defense , and when best to keep quiet while being gang raped . “ the last time it happened , a man came to pick me up in a car . he drove me near a bridge , where six other men were waiting in a field . they had knifes , and they cut me while they raped me , ” she said , showing a long slash on her calf , which was still healing . “ there ’ s nothing i could do , they threatened to kill me if i screamed . ” according to ms . sokna , the roughly 200 women working in and around the wat phnom area in phnom penh often experience beatings , intimidations , abuse and gang rape . the men who tend to pick up the women for an hour in a guesthouse don ’ t have enough money to spend inside brothels or massage parlors where the girls are , to an extent , protected by the owners and services cost at least four times as much as on the street . the men who come here , ms . sokna said , are often drunk or on drugs , and many of them are violent . ms . sokna is fully aware of the potential dangers of the streets , and has come to accept them . she has been dragged into forests and threatened with guns , situations that she says have made her think she would never see her children again . but more importantly , she has learned to stick to certain rules to protect herself from getting into a danger—at least if money isn ’ t tight . for example , going to a guesthouse you are familiar with , where the owners are your friends and will come running if you scream for help , and taking a separate ride from your client are guidelines that make your life as a streetwalker much safer , ms . sokna said . but when ends don ’ t meet , she accepts to work under conditions and rules set up by customers . “ if i already made enough money to pay for food and for the $2 rent for the next day , then i tell them that i will only go to the guesthouse i know . then , i can choose . but sometimes i am so desperate for a customer that i have to take the risk , ” she said . on average , sex workers earn about $10 for an hour and can have as many as four clients per night . it ’ s around 9 : 30 p . m . when ms . sokna takes a seat on a bench on street 106 . she shrieks briefly as police drive up , but they don ’ t stop . “ perhaps it ’ s too early , ” she said , adding that coming to work early brought another advantage . “ there ’ s less competition , ” ms . sokna said . “ later at night , if i ask for extra money to pay for my own ride to the guesthouse , the men will just walk over to the next girl , ” she said . at another spot for streetwalkers in phnom penh , close to olympic stadium , two sisters in short pants and flip flops are talking to three young men on a motorbike . the men ask chia sreymum , 24 , to turn around and show off her body . her sister , chia sreyni , gives her instructions , and tells her to smile . although sreyni is two years younger , it is she who introduced her sister to the street . ms . sreymum ’ s husband passed away a few months ago , leaving her with a 6 - year - old son and a 4 - year - old daughter , while ms . sreyni ’ s husband is in prey sar prison . all their relatives have passed away , they said , except for their grandmother , who tucks in their children when they are at work . they have never learned a trade and are both illiterate , leaving them limited options for work . walking the streets , ms . sreymum said , held the best prospects of making enough money to send her children to school . “ when my husband died , i spoke to my grandmother about the future , and how i could take up this work to earn enough for us to live on . after some discussion , we agreed that there was no other way for me to make money , so she let me go , ” ms . sreymum said . one of the worst things about her job , besides abusive customers , are the frequent beatings by police . prostitution is illegal , and police officers come every night to chase them down the street . “ that ’ s why i don ’ t wear heels anymore . with flip flops , i can run faster and escape , ” she said . and her feisty sister looks out for the two of them . ms . sreyni handles the business and tells the young men on their motorbikes that an hour costs $20 , that they can choose one of the two guesthouses the women have trust in , and that their own designated tuk tuk driver , whom they hire every night , will take them there separately . there ’ s no haggling , and the rules aren ’ t up for discussion . it ’ s basic and simple and not hard to stick to , ms . sreyni said : wear comfortable shoes . go to guesthouses you know . always tell your friends where you are going . get your own ride . and if you have to scream for help—do it as loud as you can . these rules have done a great deal in protecting them , especially from gang rape , ms . sreyni said . “ it never happened to me , nor to my sister . we hear about it from other people , but i think it won ’ t happen to us ” as long as we can afford to stick to the rules , she said . © 2013 , all rights reserved . 
__label__relevant dozens of sex workers detained dozens of sex workers detainedcity hall yesterday said dozens of suspected sex workers were detained during an eight - day campaign to crack down on prostitution . the campaign , which began on july 7 and lasted until sunday , aimed to round up all suspected sex workers around wat phnom pagoda in daun penh district . city hall spokesman met meas pheakdey yesterday said a total of 49 suspected sex workers , including a dozen males , were sent to the social affairs department to be educated . “ the move was done in order to improve social order and curb the degradation of women , ” mr meas pheakdey said . ros sopheap , president of gender and development for cambodia , yesterday said law enforcement does not help women leave a life of prostitution , nor does it improve society . “ a sex worker is a victim ; arresting a victim does not help with anything , but leads to more consequences , ” ms sopheap said . “ they work to earn money and support their family . if they are arrested , their family will face difficulties . prostitution is also a job . ” she added that gadc previously sent a statement to the government over concerns of discrimination against sex workers . “ the government should implement proper solutions in order to guarantee human rights , ” ms sopheap said . “ it also has to develop a more effective protection system , as well as improve the job market , rather than enforcing laws . ” “ current police operations are unfair and do not provide equality to women , ” she added . ” 
__label__relevant alcohol a risk for sex workers , study finds alcohol a risk for sex workers , study findsboth cambodian women engaging in sex work and their male clients engage in unhealthy alcohol use , according to the findings of a soon - to - be - published study . led by dr marie - claude couture of the university of san francisco , a team of researchers administered a questionnaire to 100 women in preah sihanouk province who reported having had sex in the preceding three months in return for money , gifts or goods . another questionnaire was administered to 100 self - identified clients . participants were asked to rate their alcohol intake , and the following morning they were invited to have their blood tested for hiv positivity as well as a biomarker called phosphatidylethanol ( peth ) . peth is useful for detecting heavy drinking patterns because it stays in the blood for two to three weeks after a bout of heavy drinking , according to the report . the results showed that 60 per cent of women and 42 per cent of men had a level of peth in their blood that indicates “ unhealthy alcohol consumption ” . the study also found that men tended to under - report their alcohol use . the report defines unhealthy alcohol use as including “ risky drinking and alcohol - use disorders ” . the majority of women ( 71 per cent ) participating in the study reported that their sex work took place in the course of their jobs as entertainment workers , while the remainder ’ s took place on a freelance basis or in brothels . nine per cent of all women surveyed tested hiv positive , nationwide hiv prevalence is currently 1 . 6 per cent . professor ian lubek , who has conducted extensive research on entertainment workers , alcohol and sex in cambodia said that in his experience , workers and clients are far more likely to engage in risky behaviour when they have been drinking . “ we find that when entertainment workers drink alcohol , condom use goes down , ” he said . he attributes the high rates of hiv infections among cambodia ’ s entertainment workers in part to the criminalisation of brothels in 2008 . “ when brothels closed , the workers went underground and men still sought out sex , some of whom found it with beer sellers . . . before 2008 , beer sellers had paid sex 2 . 7 times a month when they had to make ends meet , ” he said , adding that in the following years , those numbers increased significantly . he also called for higher wages for entertainment workers , insisting that if their salaries were doubled to “ living ” wages , they would less frequently find themselves caught short at the end of the month . however , the director of health ngo khana , choub sok chamreun , said that calling for higher salaries did not address an immediate need for education of entertainment workers . “ if the company who employs these people can increase their salary , we ’ re very happy . but in the meantime , we need to give them a proper message about how they can keep themselves safe , ” chamreun said . one 32 - year - old beer seller who asked not to be named said yesterday that while she refrains from engaging in sex with clients or becoming intoxicated on the job , she knew of colleagues that did both . “ i heard of some beer girls getting fully drunk with her customers . . . i could not do that , ” she said . “ it ’ s high risk for her to have sex without protection . ” 
