__label__relevant when home isn ’ t safe : how coronavirus puts neighbours on front lines of abuse send this page to someone via emailthe phone rings less than it used to at the london abused women ’ s centre . the calls that do come through are often quick and concerning , with women warning the support worker that if their abuser comes in from the backyard or gets out of the shower , they ’ ll have to hang up with little to no warning . “ we do literally 10 seconds of safety planning , say call back whenever you can , and then they hang up , ” says megan walker , the centre ’ s executive director . she is worried , and you can hear it in her voice . across the country , support centres and shelters are grappling with the same heartbreaking problem : how to help someone be safe when they have been told to isolate at home but their home isn ’ t safe . story continues below advertisementadd in children and the sometimes very small confines of an apartment , and “ things are really brewing and bubbling , ” walker says . “ i ’ m just so worried about increases in violence and femicide . ” there is reason to be worried . “ times of social isolation increase the risk of domestic abuse , ” according to the european institute for gender equality , which also noted that even once the worst of the covid - 19 outbreak subsides , life doesn ’ t just snap back to normal . “ it can also be harder for women to leave their abuser once the crisis is over , due to the financial insecurity that might follow . ” tweet thisschools are closed , libraries are closed and community centres are closed . in ontario , where walker works , only essential services remain open . those closures have an important impact on stopping the spread of the new coronavirus , wrote lawyer pamela cross for the lawyer ’ s daily , but “ some of them play right into the hands of many abusers . ” domestic abuse is about power and control , something an abuser has more of when their victim is forced to isolate at home — which , as cross wrote , means an increase in “ opportunities for physical , sexual and emotional abuse . ” story continues below advertisement1 : 13 what is violence against women ? what is violence against women ? that negative impact will likely only get worse as time goes on , says petra molnar , acting director of the international human rights program at the university of toronto . so far , prime minister justin trudeau has earmarked $50 million for women ’ s shelters and sexual assault centres grappling with the spread of covid - 19 and their support work . generally speaking , molnar says offering solutions is “ tough because it highlights how limited our societal supports are for people going through domestic violence . ” those support gaps can be felt even more keenly when the person experiencing abuse is also part of a more marginalized community , molnar says , like refugees and immigrants . story continues below advertisementthat ’ s an intersection natalia jiménez , a colombian refugee whose partner tried to kill her after moving to canada , spoke with global news about last fall . jiménez struggled with the language barrier , a lack of understanding of canadian policies and laws and issues accessing support services and alternative housing options in addition to pressure within her community not to report the abuse she faced . “ i kept quiet and endured , ” she said . 5 : 07 how natalia jimenez survived an attempted murder how natalia jimenez survived an attempted murderjiménez and sonya cywink , an ojibway woman whose murder remains unsolved 25 years later , were the two honourees for last year ’ s shine the light campaign organized by the london abused women ’ s centre . the campaign has been revived this spring to highlight the role neighbours and community members can play in helping people escape abuse during covid - 19 isolation , walker says . story continues below advertisementcommunity involvement is a point she wants to underscore . a woman might only have a few minutes for a stolen phone call while her abuser is in the yard . and while walker says that might be enough for a little bit of safety planning , it ’ s still wholly inadequate ; the support worker on the other end often can ’ t offer an immediate shelter bed or hotel space . as a result , figuring out a safe alternative space to ride out the pandemic can mean time , including back - and - forth calls , that a woman at risk in her own home doesn ’ t necessarily have . on the contrary , a conversation with a neighbour on the street — even one with six feet of space in between — likely wouldn ’ t arouse as much suspicion . “ if you know somebody that ’ s isolated or might be struggling , make sure you ask the question : ‘are you being abused ? ’ ” walker says . “ they ’ re more likely to respond if they ’ re asked than just to come out ( with it ) themselves . ” 1 : 50 calgary social agencies brace for increased domestic violence calls during covid - 19 pandemic calgary social agencies brace for increased domestic violence calls during covid - 19 pandemiconce you know , you can offer to be the person who more safely co - ordinates calls with shelters and other support services as needed . story continues below advertisement “ i really believe it will be the neighbours who get women through this , ” walker says , encouraging neighbours to ask : “ are you being abused ? are you safe ? ” community - based responses to gender - based violence are an approach that the ontario council of agencies serving immigrants ( ocasi ) uses . it ’ s of particular importance for racialized and immigrant communities , says margarita pintin - perez , senior co - ordinator of ocasi ’ s initiative to end gender - based violence . pintin - perez echoes walker ’ s call to community action , particularly now , when people are at home with “ no reprieve ” from their abuser and the support systems they might usually be able to reach are working remotely . “ neighbours are definitely important , ” she says , encouraging people to check in on those around them , whether it ’ s saying hello on a walk or dropping letters off in mailboxes saying to text or call if you need anything . “ those are great gestures , really important because they can be life - saving for someone in these situations , ” pintin - perez says . ultimately , molnar says it ’ s important to remember that the covid - 19 outbreak isn ’ t creating new problems but exacerbating long - standing ones . women ’ s shelters and transition homes , often the starting point for those fleeing violence , are decades old , crumbling from lack of repairs and struggling to finance the life - saving services they provide . every day , shelters turn away 379 women and 215 children because of space constraints , according to a 2019 report from women ’ s shelters canada . the idea of having to turn someone away in the middle of a pandemic is “ so unbelievably sad , ” says silvia samsa , executive director of women ’ s habitat . story continues below advertisementwomen ’ s habitat has a 10 - room shelter on the western edge of toronto that ’ s been full since mid - march . already , they ’ ve shuttered community outreach programs , enacted strict rules around handwashing and hand sanitizer use and done their best to navigate toilet paper shortages when the women they serve don ’ t have the funds to stockpile toiletries . “ we ’ re really , really hoping we don ’ t have to go into quarantine , ” samsa says . molnar is heartened to see how much communities have already stepped up to support victims of domestic abuse amid the pandemic . still , she says , she wants to be clear that she is in no way advocating for local initiatives as the solution . “ as a society , we need to have a conversation around what our priorities are and what kind of funding and support are we able to provide to the violence against women sector . ” story continues below advertisementif you think someone is being abused , here is some information on supporting them and additional information on safety planning . if you think someone is abusive to their partner , here is a list of resources to help . 
__label__relevant wiff documentary shines spotlight on female genital mutilation ask giselle portenier why she chose to travel to tanzania for her latest documentary , and she ' ll say that tanzania actually chose her . according to the self - described human rights filmmaker , whose latest project in the name of your daughter is set to screen at this year ' s windsor international film festival ( wiff ) , it was actually a google alert about female genital mutilation ( fgm ) that led portenier to her next project . " i was looking for a story that might be accessible to my audience , that people could engage with , " said portenier . " i had [set] a google alert about female genital mutilation for about five years , and one day , this story popped up about a safehouse that saves girls from their own parents so that they won ' t be mutilated . " as a documentarian , portenier has spent much of her career making films about the human rights of women and children around the world . " i ' ve made films about honour killings in pakistan and child slavery in africa , " she said . " female genital mutilation is something that had always eluded me , but i always felt was a very important topic . " listen to gisele portenier discuss her film on windsor morning : female genital mutilation is the subject of a documentary screening at the windsor international film festival . if you think it ' s something that only affects women in far - flung countries , you ' re be mistaken . tony speaks with director giselle portenier about why this film , and this difficult subject , is something all canadians should pay attention to . 8 : 54when portenier came across the safehouse in tanzania — run by rhobi samwelly , who is heavily featured in portenier ' s latest film — she knew she had a responsibility to tell the story of the women and girls who rely on the organization for security . " my film is really about the voices of the girls , the voices of the children who are running away to save themsleves from female genital mutilation and the child marriage that follows thereafter , " portenier said . still , while the film touches on a topic that has affected hundreds of millions of girls around the world — including almost 100 , 000 girls and women in canada — portenier said she hopes audiences leave the documentary inspired . wiff executive director vincent georgie says the festival doesn ' t shy away from films that portray complicated subject matter . ( katerina georgieva / cbc ) " [i hope] audiences walk away from it inspired by the children , because some of them are only eight - years - old , " she said . " imagine an eight - year - old risking her life and her family by running away from home , just so she won ' t have to go through the mutilation that she ' s heard about perhaps at school and knows is a risk to her life and her future . " vincent georgie , executive director and chief programmer of wiff , said the festival doesn ' t shy away from films that cover sensitive topics , adding that in the name of your daughter is a " very important film to show at the festival , and one that we believe in very much . " " one of the luxuries of running a large film festival like ours , is you ' re able to bring in all sorts of different films for different audiences and different points of view , " he said . " and we ' ve never shied away from films that are challenging our films that are different or films that provoke or make you think . " ' i hope it ' s educational , ' says survivorfrancis cole , a survivor of female genital mutilation , who advocates for women and girls around the world by sharing her own story , said she ' s portenier ' s film educates audiences , rather than presenting an inaccurate view of the issue . " i hope that this has a message of educating people about the practice , " she said . " i just hope that they ' ll be made more aware if they ' re not already aware about what fgm is . " cole said she also hopes portneir ' s film acknowledges that fgm isn ' t just a practice maintained by any one particular religious group . francis cole is a female genital mutilation survivor who advocates against the practice . ( amy dodge / cbc ) " when people hear about fgm , they automatically think it ' s a muslim thing , " said cole , who has yet to see in the name of your daughter . " i was raised catholic and i wasn ' t spared . " cole added that she hopes audiences understand that fgm is a " global issue . " " it ' s a human rights violation , " she said . " it ' s torture and it has lifelong consequence and it ' s happening all around us . it ' s no longer happening in some remote village in a country in africa . " speaking about the subject , portenier acknowledged that an important thing to note is that fgm " doesn ' t have anything to do with religion . " " [in] the safehouse , for instance , there are children from muslim communities , children from christian communties and also from animist traditions , " she said . fgm is about ' sexual control of girls , ' says filmmakerwhile many might believe female genital mutilation is a cultural practice , portenier said the truth is far less complicated . " the common denominator everywhere is sexual control of girls , " she said . " it ' s thought that if you put a girl through female genital mutilation , she won ' t be having sex before marriage , and then she won ' t be having affairs — be unfaithful — during marriage . " at the same time , portenier wants her audience to understand that topics like female genital mutilation don ' t just take place in so - called " other " parts of the world . " there are 200 million survivors and every 11 seconds somewhere in the world , a girl is going through fgm and that ' s a lot of children , " she said . " it ' s also a canadian issue … because we have upwards of 100 , 000 survivors in canada and these women are not getting the support that they need . " " and we have girls at risk . government documents show that girls are being taken in the summer months back to their home country to be cut . " windsor refugee settlement agency connects fgm survivors with access to caremike morency , executive director of windsor ' s matthew house refugee welcome centre , echoed portenier ' s comments about fgm survivors in canada . according to morency , his agency has seen an increase in women fleeing to canada to escape fgm or who have already experienced the issue . " we ' re certainly seen an increase in the number of people fleeing to canada , and while that ' s not the exclusive reason for their refugee claim , it is part of their story , " he said . matthew house executive director mike morency says access to trauma counselling is essential for survivors of female genital mutilation . ( chris ensing / cbc ) as for how matthew house provides support to survivors , morency said an important part of the work he does is " connecting them with counsellors , trauma experts to deal with the experiences that they have had prior to coming to canada . " " depending on the depth of their trauma , we would want to try to make sure that they get connected with a counselor that has trauma treatment experience and help them walk through that process , " morency said . 
__label__relevant prince andrew ' s bahamas visit to second tycoon facing child sex claims a tycoon with links to prince andrew has been accused of raping teenagers he lured to his bahamas mansion . peter nygard , 78 , allegedly told girls as young as 14 he could make them models before raping them and forcing them into performing ' deviant acts ' . andrew visited nygard at his lavish estate in 2000 , after the canadian fashion designer had agreed out - of - court settlements with three employees who accused him of sexual harassment . the prince and his ex - wife sarah ferguson stayed at nygard cay , near nassau , with daughters beatrice and eugenie . the new case threatens further embarrassment for andrew , who stepped back from public life last year following a backlash over his relationship with paedophile financier jeffrey epstein . prince andrew visited tycoon peter nygard ( pictured together ) at his lavish estate in the bahamas in 2000the prince and his ex - wife sarah ferguson stayed at nygard cay , near nassau , with daughters beatrice and eugenie ( pictured with nygard ) according to a 99 - page lawsuit filed against him in new york , nygard used his ten - bedroom mansion to host ' pamper parties ' for teenage girls recruited at shopping malls and fashion events . he and his employees told the girls they could be fashion models , but then plied them with wine and drugs before nygard allegedly raped them . three alleged victims were 14 - year - old virgins and said they felt scared and humiliated by the attacks , which left one needing medical treatment . the case has been brought on behalf of ten women who allege they were raped by nygard . eight were teenage girls and two were adult employees on the nassau estate . lawyers said nygard , who is worth an estimated £690million , ran a ' decades - long sex trafficking scheme ' that destroyed innocent lives . they said he used his company ' s private jet , dubbed ' n - force ' , to take his victims with him on visits to london , germany , italy and china , and treated them as his ' personal servants ' . lawyers said nygard , who is worth an estimated £690million , ran a ' decades - long sex trafficking scheme ' that destroyed innocent lives . pictured : his lavish nygard cay estatetwo yachts were allegedy used to transport drugs and liquor for the parties and nygard was said to keep a database of 7 , 500 potential victims . the case has parallels with some of the accusations against epstein , who used his private jet , known as the lolita express , to traffic young women and girls . one epstein victim , virginia roberts , claims she was trafficked to london and forced to have sex with prince andrew when she when she was 17 . andrew has repeatedly denied her account and he is not involved in the nygard lawsuit . a spokesman for nygard said the allegations were ' completely false , without foundation and are vigorously denied ' . after fashion exec peter nygard was accused of raping 10 young women at a mansion prince andrew once visited , guy adams asks what the duke finds so attractive about foreign billionaires who own luxury caribbean properties ? what does prince andrew find so attractive about foreign billionaires who own caribbean mansions ? with the jeffrey epstein scandal still casting its ugly shadow , the queen ' s second son may now face the fallout from a second deeply unedifying legal case involving one of his wealthy acquaintances . his name is peter nygard . he is a leathery 78 - year - old canadian fashion tycoon , famed for his ultra - flamboyant dress sense and the hedonistic lifestyle he has for years pursued at a ' private luxury resort ' he owns in the bahamas . called nygard cay , it is built on a 4 . 5 - acre patch of the island of new providence which he bought in 1987 and spent a decade turning into what he later described as a ' dream home ' , with 150 , 000 sq ft of mayan - themed buildings , stretching over a dozen ' cabana - style ' residences designed for holding lavish parties . peter nygard is a 78 - year - old canadian fashion tycoon , famed for his ultra - flamboyant dress sense and the hedonistic lifestyle he has for years pursued at a ' private luxury resort ' he owns in the bahamas . pictured : actress suelyn medeiros and peter nygard arrive at a fashion eventthe buildings include a casino , a disco hut ( with cameras beneath the dance floor , reportedly to shoot images of revellers from below ) , a glass ceiling weighing 45 tons and the world ' s largest sauna , a 6 , 000 sq ft a - frame lodge made from 2ft - thick canadian pine logs . in the grounds there is a helipad , fake volcanoes that belch dry ice , a flock of peacocks , stone cobras which hiss steam at sunset , 60ft towers festooned with hundreds of flaming torches ( lit nightly by staff ) , and giant statues of nude women , purportedly modelled on the owner ' s former girlfriends . andrew visited in early 2000 , around the time of his 40th birthday . by then he had been divorced for four years and , with his royal navy career drawing to a close , was in the first throes of a midlife crisis that would also see him pursue an ill - fated friendship with epstein , whose own private caribbean island — subsequently dubbed ' paedo island ' after disturbing revelations about the financier — he had visited the summer before . like epstein , nygard moved in colourful circles . the father of at least seven children by four women , he was at the time dating former playboy model anna nicole smith , and had for years entertained famous chums at nygard cay . his personal website boasts that guests ranged from pop royalty ( michael jackson , lenny kravitz ) to hollywood a - listers ( robert deniro , sylvester stallone , jessica alba , zoe saldana , sean connery ) to the former u . s . president george h . w . bush and several members of the kennedy clan . none of these high - profile chums , many of whom are pictured on nygard ' s website , seemed unduly bothered that their host had in recent years settled widely reported sexual harassment cases against three women who worked for his clothing company . andrew , who visited with ex - wife sarah ferguson and their two daughters , was also untroubled by that pressing fact . the 99 - page document says the well - connected tycoon ( pictured ) used his wealth and status to systematically ' groom and entice underage girls ' into a globetrotting haremnygard founded clothing producer nygard international and is known as an eccentric playboythe visit to nygard ' s home did not , of course , feature in the court circular . instead , details were disclosed by the billionaire in an interview with canada ' s national post newspaper shortly afterwards , when he waxed lyrical about how excited it had made his elderly mother , who was also in residence there . ' last week was a big week for her , ' he said . ' on monday , george bush came over to my house , and then on thursday , sarah ferguson and prince andrew came over . ' in fact , nygard recorded andrew ' s visit for posterity . a photograph shows them wandering together on the sand , with the prince wearing boat shoes and matching blue shorts and shirt . other royal guests of nygard over the years have included crown princess marie - chantal of greece and princess michael of kent , while he has also pursued a doubtless lucrative business relationship with cherie blair . all of which provides an intriguing , not to mention potentially explosive , backdrop to a truly extraordinary legal action that was launched in new york this week . on thursday , lawyers acting for ten unidentified women filed a class - action lawsuit claiming that nygard ' s bahamian mansion , where so many celebrities and a handful of royals partook of his hospitality , was a den of iniquity where countless underage girls were routinely abused . with the jeffrey epstein scandal still casting its ugly shadow , the queen ' s second son ( pictured alongside ex - wife sarah ferguson ) may now face the fallout from a second deeply unedifying legal case involving one of his wealthy acquaintancesthe 99 - page document says the well - connected tycoon used his wealth and status to systematically ' groom and entice underage girls ' into a globetrotting harem , where they would be paid cash and promised ' lucrative modelling opportunities ' , after which he would ' assault , rape and sodomise them ' . the allegations are all vigorously denied by nygard , whose spokesman derided them yesterday as ' completely false ' and ' without foundation ' , saying the tycoon ' looks forward to fully exposing this scam and once and for all clearing his name ' . but for their part , nygard ' s accusers , who are demanding a jury trial on multiple abuse and sex - trafficking charges , insist he would instruct employees to ' procure ' young girls , largely from poor neighbourhoods of new providence , to attend events at the mansion . he would then , the accusers say , take them to what he called ' pamper parties ' , where they were ' plied with drugs and alcohol ' , then violently assaulted . other alleged abuse occurred on yachts and at properties in nygard ' s portfolio of luxury residences , which stretches to florida , california and new york . in one of the cases , nygard is accused of showing a 14 - year - old girl vile ' pornography ' before raping her , ' causing extraordinary pain and trauma ' . she claims to have been paid cash from nygard ' s company funds in return . another accuser says she was 15 when nygard invited her to a bedroom in his bahamian mansion during a ' pamper party ' , ostensibly to smoke marijuana . she claims he ' asked her . . . ' to perform a depraved sex act . when she refused , she says he ' attempted to sodomise ' her and ' then raped her vaginally ' . several others allege they were drugged by nygard before being raped and assaulted . one 14 - year - old local claims he gave her three pills before raping her when she was unconscious . the next day he allegedly paid her $5 , 000 . the mansion includes an area on stilts that leads out over the sea . it is allegedly the scene of where nygard plied teenage girls with drink and drunks before raping themanother , who was 17 , says nygard made a drink that made her feel ' nauseated and very sleepy ' . she says she recalls nygard ' asking to urinate in her mouth ' but has no memory of what happened next . the lawsuit claims that when she woke up ' there was blood in the back of her underwear . . . nygard gave her $550 in u . s . currency and sent her away ' . it should be stressed that lawyers and a spokesman for nygard have described each and every charge in the lawsuit as false . his lawyer , jay prober , told newspapers in canada , where he currently resides , that the claims are ' vigorously denied ' . neither have any of the complainants , who are now aged between 18 and 36 , implicated any celebrity friends who visited nygard ' s bahamian home in the alleged abuse . i can reveal , however , that this isn ' t the only lawsuit prince andrew ' s billionaire acquaintance faces . last month , lawyers acting for two more women filed separate lawsuits against him at the superior court of california , in los angeles . one , maridel carbuccia , claims in a 32 - page document that she was repeatedly abused , sexually harassed , groped and on one occasion drugged and sexually assaulted during almost three years in his employment . this lawsuit claims that carbuccia , who was married with a young son , moved to los angeles in late 2015 after landing a job helping to run a medical cannabis farm that nygard was setting up on a 50 , 000 sq ft site in the hills above malibu . trouble began shortly afterwards , it claims , when the billionaire ' unexpectedly grabbed her buttocks ' , leaving her ' shocked and upset ' . then , in april 2016 , she says he turned up to a one - on - one meeting at the los angeles mansion ' completely naked ' and again propositioned her . the mayan - style property boasts 12 cabanas , an aquarium , helipad and casinonygard has lived on the islands since 1987 , and owns a mayan - themed mansion compoundlater that day , the lawsuit further alleges , he ' gave a drink which she consumed ' , only to rapidly begin to pass out . as she was losing consciousness , she claims , her employer ' led her to his bedroom ' . the next day ' when she awoke , she saw her own blood on her skin and clothes and it was apparent that while she was unconscious , nygard had sexually assaulted her ' . at one point , the lawsuit alleges , nygard decided that her professional duties should also include acting as his ' house manager ' . this role , she claims , included inviting large numbers of women , including prostitutes , to attend ' pamper parties ' where he would ' get a good look at them and select those whom he would pay for sex ' . carbuccia eventually left his employment in august 2018 . she is now suing for damages on nine separate grounds , including battery , sexual battery , breach of contract , fraud and unpaid wages , and has demanded a jury trial . her attorney is gloria allred , a famed hollywood lawyer whose recent work has included representing victims of jeffrey epstein . nygard has yet to submit a formal response . his attorney did not respond to requests to comment on this particular case . the second woman , known only as ' jane doe ' , is a resident of houston in texas . in nine - page complaint , she has alleged that nygard ' repeatedly had sexual intercourse with her at his home ' in los angeles in october 2012 , when he was 71 and she was ' a minor under 18 years old ' ( california ' s age of consent ) . ' nygard was fully aware of [her] age , yet repeatedly had sexual intercourse with her at his home . nygard did not allow [her] to leave his residence without his permission , ' the document claims . the lawsuit further alleges that , in the ensuing weeks , nygard trafficked her to china and new york on his private jet . ' while in new york , nygard invited [her] to a " club " without informing her of the full nature of the club . nygard took [her] to a " swingers club " and instructed her to have sex with an individual so nygard could trade and have sex with the individual ' s partner , ' it claims . he then supposedly took her to fort lauderdale in florida ' and continued to have sex with [her] while she was a minor ' . ' jane doe ' is suing for damages on nine counts , including battery , sexual battery , assault , false imprisonment , harassment , and intentional infliction of emotional distress . her lawyers are also demanding a jury trial . again , nygard has yet to submit a formal response and , like any defendant in a case that has yet to be tested in court , should be considered innocent until proven otherwise . the businessman , who grew up in relative poverty , certainly has a compelling rags - to - riches story . his empire controls several of canada ' s most successful womenswear brands and he travels in a private jet that has ' peter nygard n - force ' painted on the outside and reportedly features a stripper ' s pole inside . however , claims of impropriety ( always vehemently denied and never proven ) have frequently interrupted his trajectory . in 1980 , he was charged with raping an 18 - year - old girl , only for charges to be dropped after she suddenly decided not to testify . he later alleged that the police had shown ' poor judgment ' in investigating the case . in the 1990s , three separate women who worked in his office filed sexual harassment complaints with the manitoba human rights commission , which he settled . one , a 27 - year - old travel co - ordinator , claimed she ' repeatedly brushed off mr nygard ' s touches and sexual advances ' in the workplace . another , a 39 - year - old communications manager , said that , when called into nygard ' s office , she would ' find him in a state of undress ( pants open , no shirt ) or with his hands down the front of his pants , fondling himself ' . she also claimed he once added ' naked swimming ' to the agenda of a business meeting and that , in the bahamas , ' frequently was grabbing himself ( wearing a very small bathing suit ) ' . at the time , mr nygard ' s lawyer claimed the women filed complaints in order to get better severance payments from the firm , saying it settled to avoid litigation costs . he also faced a sexual harassment suit in 1996 from a los angeles employee who claimed that , against her wishes , ' she spent the night in peter nygard ' s bed and engaged in sexual intercourse with him ' . she later rejected his advances , she claims , and was eventually fired . this case was later dismissed . again , it is worth noting that none of the above incidents appear to have prevented prince andrew bringing his two daughters and ex - wife on that 2000 visit to nygard cay . in 2008 , another woman — a former girlfriend — filed a lawsuit against nygard in los angeles superior court , alleging that he had slammed a bedroom door shut on her hand . again , the case was settled and nygard denies any wrongdoing . then , in 2010 , the canadian broadcasting corporation put out a panorama - style documentary about nygard , focusing on alleged sex abuse and harassment of former employees . it quoted a former stewardess on his private plane who alleged that on one journey — during which nygard was accompanied by a troupe of topless women — he lost his temper with staff , shouting : ' you are nothing ! you are garbage ! i am god ! ' the programme also alleged that nygard had engaged in ' inappropriate sexual contact ' with a young woman who had been brought to his home in 2003 from the dominican republic . nygard vehemently denied that either incident had happened , and sued to stop the documentary being broadcast . when that failed , he filed a criminal complaint against the journalists who made it before suing cbc for defamation . eight years later , that case is still wending its way through the canadian court system . but perhaps the most high - profile , and certainly the most bizarre legal tussle to involve nygard , is a dispute with his next - door neighbour in the bahamas , a new york hedge fund boss called louis bacon . this started in the mid - noughties as a somewhat petty dispute over car parking on an access road to their properties , along with noise from nygard ' s late - night parties , but has snowballed into an avalanche of litigation which has seen at least 18 lawsuits filed in the u . s . , canada and the caribbean . in 2016 , cherie blair — who rarely seems to meet a foreign billionaire she won ' t take paid work from — played a curious cameo in their battle . the wall street journal revealed that her law firm , omnia , had been hired to try to dig up dirt on bacon . she proceeded to contact a british former employee of bacon ' s hedge fund called julian rifat , who had been jailed for insider dealing , with a view to persuading him to tell the u . s . authorities about alleged wrongdoing at bacon ' s firm . after several meetings , the plan seems to have been abandoned . hostilities between nygard and bacon reached a peak , of sorts , last january when a court in the bahamas issued a warrant for nygard ' s arrest on contempt of court charges related to a case involving claims that nygard illegally dredged sand from the sea floor to enlarge the size of his private beach . he has been unable to visit the bahamas since , and in november was sentenced to jail time in absentia . a spokesman branded that decision ' unfair , unreasonable and unnecessary ' and vowed to appeal . in new york , meanwhile , lawyers for nygard recently filed a lawsuit claiming bacon was attempting to ' bring down ' their client by persuading various women to provide the new york times with ' false information ' regarding his conduct towards them . this is the only nygard lawsuit against bacon that has not been struck out or withdrawn . yesterday , nygard ' s attorneys were once more blaming bacon for their woes , claiming that the latest ugly lawsuit stemmed from their seemingly endless battle and is ' just the latest in a ten - plus - year string of attempts to try to destroy the reputation of a man through false statements ' . doubtless the american courts will eventually decide whether that claim holds merit . in the meantime , prince andrew , cherie blair and every celebrity who partied at the billionaire ' s lavish mansion will surely be watching with bated breath . 
__label__relevant migrant farm workers vulnerable to sexual violence : u of t expert after teresa filed a report against her farm employer for sexual assault , he asked her how much money it would take for her to retract her statement . in the spring of 2014 , teresa ( not her real name ) was attacked by her boss on his farm in british columbia . on the day the assault occurred , the boss sent teresa ’ s male co - workers to another farm for the day , leaving her and another female farm worker behind . while they were trellising grape vines , the women ran out of twine . teresa ’ s boss told her to come and get more twine inside a shed , where she says he forced his mouth onto hers and began grabbing her inappropriately . she managed to shake off his grip and run back to her co - worker in the vineyard for support . it was her word against his , and the crown decided there wasn ’ t enough evidence to proceed with the charges . in canada , 46 per cent of women survivors don ’ t even report sexual assault because they think there is insufficient proof . teresa is a single mom from baja california , mexico . since 2012 , she has been supporting her parents and two daughters by spending up to eight months each year on canadian farms through the seasonal agricultural worker program ( sawp ) . teresa was concerned that speaking up about the sexual assault might hurt her and her female co - worker ’ s future job chances . she says mexico ’ s secretariat of labour and social welfare verbally warns sawp workers each season before they leave mexico : “ ‘you ’ re coming to canada to work , not to cause problems . ’ if you complain about something , they kick you out of the program . ” elise hjalmarson ( author provided ) after the assault , teresa was transferred to a small vegetable farm , where her new employer provided accommodations in a rodent - infested trailer without a functional lock . teresa ’ s attacker lived in the adjacent village in british columbia ’ s southern interior . she suffered from recurrent nightmares . “ i was afraid . i thought he was going to show up or that he was going to do something to me . ” our connections with migrant women survivors of sexual assault are based on field research we have conducted since 2013 with migrant farm workers in canada . we are also volunteer members of grassroots advocacy organizations in british columbia and ontario that provide front - line support for farm workers . canada ’ s sawp is the main agricultural stream of the temporary foreign worker program . it began in 1966 in response to lobbying from farmers and that year in ontario , 264 jamaican workers were hired . since then , the program has expanded to all canadian provinces , bringing workers from mexico and 11 caribbean countries . in 2017 , approximately 40 , 000 workers came to canada as a part of the sawp – around 7 , 500 to british columbia . of those , less than four per cent were women . the structure of the sawp heightens the power imbalance between workers and employers , amplifying women ’ s vulnerability to sexual assault . work permits are tied to a specific employer , so getting fired typically means getting deported . workers in abusive workplaces often have difficulty transferring to a new boss . to be rehired the following season , a farm worker must receive a positive evaluation from their employer . power imbalancesthe sawp requirements effectively deter worker complaints about labour practices , housing conditions , workplace injuries or violence . the sawp contains no pathway to citizenship , even for men and women who have worked in canada for decades . workers and critics of the program argue that permanently categorizing migrants as “ non - citizens ” means they have fewer rights and protections than canadian workers . the sawp has been a boon for growers , who have access to a seemingly unending pool of workers whose urgent need for income makes them unlikely to dissent . alongside the temporary foreign worker program , a smaller number of migrants arrive in canada on tourist visas and work under the table during the harvest . luz ( not her real name ) , a 30 - year - old actor from sonora , mexico , was one such tourist . in the summer of 2015 , luz arrived in british columbia hoping to work for a few months to save some money to pay off her student loans . while employed on a cherry orchard in the similkameen valley , her boss sexually assaulted her . on the day she was attacked , her boss sent her co - workers to other parts of the farm and then grabbed her while she was walking through an empty storehouse . he forcibly groped her and began kissing her neck . luz demanded he stop and tried pushing him away , but he was significantly bigger than her . her mind was racing , “ i ’ m all alone , no one ’ s around , i could run , i could yell . but if i yell , who ’ s going to hear me ? a thousand things came into my head , and i didn ’ t know what to do . ” after much deliberation , luz decided not to go report the groping to the canadian police as she feared deportation . while sexual assault in general is the most underreported violent crime in canada , a precarious citizenship status presents an additional barrier to reporting for migrant women ( both undocumented and government - authorized ) . both teresa and luz said a fear of deportation was a major factor in deciding whether to report their assaults . both women knew of other workers who had been sent home for complaining to authorities about living conditions , workplace injuries , bullying and harassment . solidarity with #metoo across north americadespite immense injustices for migrant women , there are slow signs of change . in 2015 , the human rights tribunal of ontario awarded more than $200 , 000 to two sisters from mexico hired under the temporary foreign worker program . the tribunal found that presteve foods , a fish - packing plant in ontario , had created a “ sexually poisoned work environment . ” thirty - nine migrant women from thailand and mexico participated as complainants . the woman who received the highest damages , known as o . p . t . , described how the former plant owner forced her to perform sexual acts , threatening deportation if she didn ’ t comply . in her statement , o . p . t . highlighted how canada ’ s migrant worker program continues to create the conditions for abuse : “ under the temporary foreign worker program , the boss has all the power – over your money , house , status , everything …that happened to me eight years ago , and the system is still the same . ” amid the pressure for systemic change from movements like #metoo and times up , farm worker women are pointing to the specific ways race , class and gender can amplify women ’ s risk of workplace sexual abuse . in november , the alianza nacional de campesinas , representing more than 700 , 000 women farm workers in the united states , released a letter in solidarity with hollywood actors who had survived sexual assault , highlighting the gender inequity that pervades both industries . the coalition of immokalee workers ( ciw ) , a farm worker - led organization , has been calling on the wendy ’ s fast - food chain to sign onto an independent workplace monitoring program that would help prevent sexual violence in fields where the restaurant ’ s tomatoes are produced . after a five - day freedom fast , ciw farm worker women marched in new york city . some were accompanied by their daughters . solutions for a better futuredespite all the pain she has experienced in canada , teresa says thinking about her own daughters gives her the strength to keep going . as part of a cultural shift toward gender equity , we need to revamp canada ’ s laws , institutions and policies to better protect all women , including farm workers . the b . c . government has promised to establish a registry that could help prevent migrant workers from being charged illegal recruitment fees , which is a positive starting point . as supported by u . s . research on sexual assault services , provinces could also set up anonymous , toll - free and multilingual crisis hotlines for workers , including those who are undocumented . to address the multiple barriers faced by migrant farm worker women to health care , researchers have recommended enrolling workers in provincial health - care plans instead of private insurance schemes . free legal services and english - language classes could also strengthen women ’ s ability to assert their rights . workers should have the right to a fair appeal process before deportation . ultimately , the canadian government should eliminate tied work permits and provide migrant workers with full immigration status , two steps that would immediately lessen the disproportionate power of the employer . such changes would also go a long way toward ensuring that those who do the vital work of growing the food we eat receive the respect , freedom and dignity they deserve . anelyse weiler is a phd candidate in sociology and pierre elliott trudeau foundation scholar at the university of toronto . this article was originally published on the conversation . read the original article . 
__label__relevant somali father defends fgm after daughter , 10 , dies image copyright afpthe father of a 10 - year - old girl who died after undergoing female genital mutilation ( fgm ) in somalia has defended the practice . dahir nur ' s daughter died of blood loss on 17 july , two days after being taken to a traditional circumciser . but he told voice of america ( voa ) " people in the area are content " with fgm even considering the dangers , adding it is the country ' s " culture " . according to unicef , 98% of girls and women in somalia have undergone fgm . this is despite somalia ' s constitution prohibiting - although not outlawing - the practice , which involves the partial or total removal of the female external genitalia or other injury to the female genital organs for non - medical reasons and can cause profound health problems . dr abdirahman omar hassan , director of hanano hospital in the city of dhusamareb , told voa he had never seen " anyone who was mutilated like that in my life " . dr hassan , who was on the team who tried to save the girl , also revealed she had caught tetanus , most likely from the unsterilised equipment used during the original procedure . but mr nur said he did not want to pursue charges , and held no one to blame for his daughter ' s death . hawa aden mohamed , director of women ' s rights group galkayo education center for peace and development ( gecpd ) , pointed out even if he did , it would be largely meaningless . " the woman who performed the operation has not been arrested but even if she was , there is no law that would ensure she is punished for the act , " she told news agency reuters . " this is just one among many cases happening on a daily basis across somalia . " efforts to criminalise fgm in somalia have been stalled by politicians , who fear it will alienate voters who believe it is a religious requirement , while girls who have not undergone it are reportedly taunted for not being cut . 
__label__relevant windsor man convicted of keeping his wife as a sex slave article contenta windsor man found guilty of sexual assault and extortion used the threat of deportation to pressure his wife into performing sexual acts , a judge ruled friday . the man , who cannot be named to protect the identity of his wife , abused his position of power during his nine - week marriage , superior court justice paul howard said before delivering his judgment in a windsor courtroom . we apologize , but this video has failed to load . tap here to see other videos from our team . try refreshing your browser , or windsor man convicted of keeping his wife as a sex slave back to videoon numerous occasions , the man made calls to cancel his sponsorship application for his wife ’ s immigration to canada , only to reinstate the application once she did what he told her to , howard said during his summary of the six - day september trial . a failed refugee claimant from nigeria , the woman sought asylum in canada in 2013 in an attempt to protect her daughter from a female genital mutilation ceremony that required the mother to be present , court heard . in 2015 , while living in brampton , she met the man through the online dating site plenty of fish . less than a week after their first face - to - face encounter , she moved into his windsor home , and married him within the month . 
__label__relevant international women ’ s day should remind us there is a ways to go toward gender equity article content continuedin saying this , i need only look as far as my own family ’ s experience . my grandmother grew up in cape breton , nova scotia , where she was taken out of school by her own parents in grade 4 to become a housemaid . her daughter — my mother — was afforded the opportunity to finish high school , but did not have the opportunity to attend university . she only did so much later in life , completing a university degree by correspondence — never once setting foot inside a university classroom — while raising six children at home . things have undoubtedly improved in canada in terms of women ’ s education in recent decades , and my daughters and i have benefited from that . but we too have faced challenges , including sexual harassment and assault . countless other women in canada have their own heartbreaking stories of harassment , discrimination , pay inequity , and domestic violence . and the hundreds of cases of missing and murdered indigenous women and girls in our country constitute a national tragedy . i wish i could stand up and say that canada leads the world in gender equity , but sadly i cannot . i do remain hopeful , however . gender equity is not an issue for women ; it is an issue for all of us . we need to keep talking about women ’ s issues , highlight the challenges and inequalities that exist for women , and put measures in place to remove these challenges . and we need to recognize and address the challenges that are faced by others in canada – indigenous peoples , minorities , newcomers , members of the lgbtq2+ community , and persons with disabilities , for example . canada should be a just and fair place for everyone . so on international women ’ s day — and every day , for that matter — let ’ s all reflect on the kind of country and world in which we want to live . let ’ s work collectively to ensure that our daughters and granddaughters can say that in canada , they and everyone else have equal opportunities in life . vianne timmons , president and vice - chancellor , university of regina
__label__relevant woman tells national inquiry she couldn ’ t watch sister take last breath the northwest territories are known for stunning natural beauty that seems to hide an ugly secret – domestic violence . ( joni andre with her son , frazer , in this undated photo provided by the national inquiry . ) the northwest territories are known for stunning natural beauty that seems to hide an ugly secret – domestic violence . at least that ’ s the deadly theme emerging in yellowknife during the national inquiry into missing and murdered indigenous women and girls . “ everybody knew . we all knew what was going on , ” said jayda andre , who testified wednesday at the public hearings about the death of her 22 - year - old sister , joni andre , in 2004 . joni ’ s husband , stanley itse , was found guilty of manslaughter . see more on the first day of mmiwg public hearings in yellowknife : “ we should have spoken up . we knew it wasn ’ t ok . she loved the guy so much maybe she thought he would change , ” said jayda . jayda said her sister was beaten and stabbed to death in their home in fort mcpherson , a hamlet in the inuvik region of the territory . “ there was a lot of abuse in…such a beautiful place , ” said jayda . the community of about 800 people is still without a shelter for adults and their children fleeing abuse . it ’ s one of the sorely needed social services commissioners are being told is lacking in the territory known for valuable natural resources like diamonds and gold . jayda recalled joni ’ s last moment alive in the health centre . “ she wasn ’ t breathing then . she was gone , ” said jayda , sobbing , of her older sister . “ i never got to see her take her last breath . i never got to tell her how much i loved her . ” jayda apologized for breaking down in tears on the second day of public hearings , explaining she ’ d been keeping most of the hurt inside since she was 15 years old . “ it ’ s the start of my healing journey to remember her , to honour her…it ’ s time that everybody gets to know who she is , ” she said . jayda said she testified wednesday to honour her sister – whom she called her ‘best friend ’ – and to warn others who may be in the same dangerous situation . “ he ran like a coward for beating her…he had been jealous and controlling but she loved him like crazy , ” she said . the murder , for which itse served three years despite having a lengthy criminal record , left a son without a mother . “ to me that ’ s ridiculous , ” said jayda . “ the justice system in the north is full of shit . you can do anything to anybody and serve a few years . ” the court case was heard in the recreation centre where the community held feasts and dances . jayda said she just a teenager and was left to go through the process alone . a complication common in small communities , she said , is inter - personal relationships that make it hard to access what limited support there is . she said commissioners should recommend outside professionals come in during times of grief and need , as well as beefing up existing resources . “ i don ’ t recall much help and support given to me as a teenager , ” she said . “ i ’ m not blaming anybody for it and i ’ m not looking for sympathy or anything . “ there may be other survivors out there ; maybe they ’ re not capable ; maybe they ’ re not ready , but they shouldn ’ t have to find places for counselling . it should be public and be given to them . ” now that she ’ s older , jayda said she ’ s come to understand joni ’ s relationship better – and to understand how vulnerable her sister was . “ she refused to see the bad in him . she loved him too much…i think where she would be today if she moved on – if he would let her , ” she said . this led commissioner brian eyolfson to ask what help was available now for people in abusive relationships . jayda said there were some social services but the nearest emergency shelter was still in inuvik – accessible by a long car road away on a bumpy road requiring expensive gasoline . even today , in 2018 , n . w . t . doesn ’ t have a 9 - 1 - 1 emergency telephone system or more than five transition houses for 33 communities . nor does it have public or private cross - territory transportation like buses . kmartens . cakathleen martens investigative reporter / winnipeg award - winning reporter kathleen martens covers western and northern canada for aptnnews . ca . a veteran of the brandon sun , sun media and aptn investigates , she is based in aptn ’ s head office , specializing in stories about property , women ’ s rights and community . report an error tell us your storyyour name * your email address * details * submit report
__label__relevant quebec ' s values test is not just xenophobic — it ' s misogynistic , too true or false : in quebec , women and men have the same rights and this is inscribed in law ? the question is at best aspirational , and at worst a trick . it ’ s also a question the quebec government plans to pose to potential immigrants before they can complete the process to immigrate here . last week , quebecers finally got a glimpse at some of the questions from the coalition avenir québec ’ s long - anticipated policy . the example questions they circulated demonstrate that the policy is less about identifying what our common values are , and more about what the caq thinks our values ought to be . the first question is curious . women don ’ t have the same rights as men in quebec or anywhere in canada . this can be seen in many measures , from rates of violence against women to the gender wage gap . the first part of the question is false , unless they want potential immigrants to answer with what should be true . the second part — as inscribed in law — is more true , but if the effect of gender discrimination makes men and women less equal , what is the point of this question ? on le canal nouvelles , haroun bouazzi , spokesman with the organization muslims and arabs for a secular quebec , argued that the existence of the values test implies to quebecers the threat to women ’ s rights or lgbttq+ rights comes from outside the province . the problem , of course , is these rights are under attack by quebecers . in the interview , bouazzi says that maybe a values test , and commensurate education , is actually needed for everyone . especially , it would seem , at the national assembly , where a member ’ s halloween costume has created a crisis among the parties that strongly believe women must dress a certain way when they ’ re elected . on halloween , mna catherine dorion posted a photo of herself sitting atop the speaker of the national assembly ’ s desk dressed as “ a member of ( the ) national assembly . ” dorion has been criticized by journalists , pundits and other politicians for what she wears . her clothes walk a fine line between what is permitted and not permitted by the national assembly ’ s dress code . she often wears sweaters or t - shirts and is regularly criticized for wearing clothes that aren ’ t fancy enough . her halloween costume adhered strictly to the national assembly ’ s rules : her hair was curled , she was wearing a necklace , a blazer , a short skirt , translucent black pantyhose and high heels . many people applauded dorion ’ s costume as high - level trolling . but predictably , others responded with vile misogyny toward dorion ’ s choice of costume . xavier camus , a philosopher and blogger who closely follows hate online , posted several comments from people mocking her and making vile comments about her . they were posted on facebook to a partisan group for supporters of the governing party called “ the friends of the caq . ” on dorion ’ s own facebook page , amid the hundreds of overwhelmingly positive comments , there are a handful of people who disagree with her costume . mostly women , they express their opposition without resorting to sexist tropes . but there are also comments made by men about her legs or her face , and how she should dress more often like that to please their desire to see a female politician rather as a sex symbol — or i imagine that ’ s their motivation . on tuesday , the liberals called for the ethics commissioner to investigate dorion ’ s stunt . on thursday , she was denied entry to the salon bleu , where mnas meet , for wearing clothes that were too informal : an orange sweatshirt she had previously worn without being reprimanded . women ’ s gender expression is aggressively policed across workplaces , such as bars and restaurants requiring women to wear skirts or heels , to large national corporations like air canada , which insists its female flight attendants wear make up — but not too much . “ make up should enhance a woman ’ s overall appearance , ” its uniform guidebook says . there ’ s no similar appearance requirement for male employees . if women lawmakers are not able to do their jobs free from harassment over what they wear , what hope is there for everyone else ? and how is an immigrant supposed to answer this question when gender discrimination is perpetuated by the same politicians claiming they will screen these biases out of quebec ? critics of the values test have said from the start the exercise does little more than invoke and stoke xenophobia . but the real issue isn ’ t newcomers at all . it ’ s quebecers who engage in homophobia and racism regularly , who insult women or who pay them less for work . it ’ s politicians who quietly understand this values test is simply an exercise in using xenophobia to boost popularity , while at the same time openly perpetuating gender discrimination . bouazzi is right : what we really need right now is values education for all quebecers that doesn ’ t ask trick questions , but instead starts confronting society ’ s hate head - on . 
__label__relevant toronto victim of machete attack likely had no choice but to report abuse : domestic violence expert sitting in her office on lansdowne avenue , the executive director of the south asian women ’ s centre said she is sad thinking about tharshika jeganathan — the victim of a deadly machete attack in scarborough on wednesday night “ i think we have to be honest with what ’ s going on in our community , especially with young women brides in our community . there are too many cases of abuse with newcomer brides , ” said kripa sekhar . sekhar said 27 - year - old jeganathan , who was married in 2015 before coming to canada in 2017 to join her husband 38 - year - old sasikaran thanapalasingam , was likely terrified when she went to police in march of that year to report that her then - husband had allegedly assaulted her . “ i think she was forced to report it because she was so afraid for her life . otherwise i don ’ t think she would have done it because she would have wanted to save her marriage , ” she said . story continues below advertisementcourt documents obtained by global news found that thanapalasingam , who has now been charged with the first - degree murder of jeganathan , was charged with assault in march 2017 . but after breaching the conditions of his release by contacting his wife in may 2017 , he was given a probation order restricting him from having any contact with jeganathan for a year . in february , a peace bond was again issued prohibiting thanapalasingam from going near his estranged wife . it was still in effect when he surrendered to officers at toronto police 42 division wednesday night . “ once a restraining order is issued , a woman ’ s life is even more in jeopardy , ” said sekhar . “ i think the issue of violence and abuse against women is a global issue , but in different communities it manifests itself differently . ” tweet thissekhar said in most cases of arranged marriages in south asia , there ’ s usually a demand that the bride ’ s family bring jewelry and money to the groom and pay for the wedding . and sometimes coming to canada to join the husband is also seen as a privilege . “ if a woman goes to police back home , there are consequences . her life is now in danger — she has shamed the family , she has also disgraced the man , ” explained sekhar . story continues below advertisementsekhar said only about 10 per cent of the clients who access the counselling services at the south asian women ’ s centre , including a program entitled “ violence against women , ” finally make a decision to leave . the centre works closely with the shelters to get women in when they ’ re ready . they give women safety plans and provide them with legal support . read more : woman dead after machete attack in east - end toronto and suspect in custody , police saymirusha yogarajah , a social justice advocate for the tamil community , said the stigma around domestic violence and around divorce means many women have a difficult time leaving a relationship . “ it is common knowledge that [domestic violence] happens , but we fail to acknowledge it as a community . there ’ s a lot of dismissal of women ’ s stories . i ’ m tired , it ’ s too pervasive , ” said yogarajah , who has written poetry about women who have been subjected to domestic violence at the hands of their husbands or fathers . she said she ’ s alarmed because she doesn ’ t see a shift in the culture , adding she believes there ’ s a cultural acceptance of violence that ’ s perpetuated with movies and media perpetuating misogyny . story continues below advertisementyogarajah said there needs to be more awareness , support and access to resources . speaking about jeganathan , she said she feels sad that her life ended so tragically . “ i think that she was incredibly brave , and i don ’ t know that a peace bond or a restraining order is sufficient to protect a woman . i don ’ t think the system was made to protect her , ” yogarajah said . rip tharshika jeganathan . domestic violence is pervasive in our community and tamil women and girls end up being disposable . there needs to be accountability in the community . i am tired . https : / / t . co / lokjxbflpd — mirusha yogarajah ( @mirushayogaraja ) september 13 , 2019kripa sekhar of the south asian women ’ s centre says a woman ’ s life is more in jeopardy after a restraining order is issued , regarding the fatal machete attack of tharshika jeganathan . sekhar says roughly 10% of women who access domestic violence counselling here , decide to leave . pic . twitter . com / rapqzck4vd — catherine mcdonald ( @cmcdonaldglobal ) september 13 , 2019story continues below advertisement
__label__relevant newcomers vulnerable to domestic violence , while high - demand cultural services nearing ' breaking point ' this story is part of stopping domestic violence , a cbc news series looking at the crisis of intimate partner violence in canada and what can be done to end it . holed up most days in an apartment , priya watched as her husband swiftly took control of every aspect of her new life in canada . her cell phone and passwords , all under his thumb . any money she earned through odd jobs , all funnelled to his family . it was 2018 , and the pair had been together for two years after entering into an arranged marriage in india when priya was 26 . the abuse began just days after the wedding . if priya ever questioned her husband or told him , " no , " he ' d kick her , she says . once , he pushed her across a room , breaking her hand , and didn ' t take her for medical treatment for more than a week . sometimes , he ' d break glassware on her body ; she still can ' t hear the sound of glass shattering without feeling a rush of fear . educated and fluent in english , priya easily passed a language test , and was invited to immigrate to canada with her husband . she hoped the move would mark the start of a new chapter . instead , the abuse continued unabated . one night , shortly after she was granted permanent residency , priya says her husband attacked her in a frenzy — hitting her , slapping her , pushing her to the ground , forcing her to crawl onto a mattress on the floor while he kept kicking her . ' you ' re no use to me , so you can go die ' amid his rage , he claimed he ' d only used her to get to canada , priya says . and now he wanted her dead . " you ' re no use to me , so you can go die , " she recalls him saying . " and if you can ' t die on your own , let me help you . " priya isn ' t her real name ; cbc news has concealed her identity and exact location for safety reasons . she managed to escape that night , with bruises and a bleeding nose , and now believes she came close to being the 87th intimate partner homicide in canada in 2018 , the year with the latest comprehensive country - wide data . " i went into a complete state of shock , " she says during an interview with cbc news . " because i had no means of survival here . " while domestic violence touches families of all backgrounds , ethnicities and income levels , newcomers are particularly vulnerable , and experts say targeted services need to be in place to link marginalized women with potentially life - saving supports . those immigrants , refugees and permanent residents make up a substantial portion of the population in the greater toronto area , and particularly in peel region , where first priya settled after coming to canada . as of 2016 , immigrants make up close to 52 per cent of the region ' s population , and more than half of its visible minorities are south asian — with most recent arrivals to the area coming from india , pakistan , the philippines , china and iraq . those newcomers can face language and cultural barriers , lack family support systems , and may be highly dependent on their significant other both financially and emotionally , according to samra zafar , a public speaker , author , and advocate who also survived domestic violence in an arranged marriage . " when you are isolated , and you don ' t have community , and you feel a sense of shame and stigma , and your family is threatening to abandon you . . . it is so debilitating , " she says . 16 domestic homicides across gta in 2019peel police say 2019 was a record year for family and intimate partner violence since the force began tracking it four years ago . back in 2016 , there were no intimate partner homicides . last year , police say there were seven in peel . more broadly across the gta , there were 16 domestic homicides in 2019 , according to a cbc news analysis , and all but one of the victims were women — including nine killed by their husbands . while it ' s not clear how many victims or perpetrators were new to the country , many of the homicides involved minorities , with eight of the victims being of east asian or south asian backgrounds . one of those women , 27 - year - old tharshika jeganathan , was on her way to building herself a new life after she left her ex - husband , according to people who knew her . those friends previously told cbc news she came to canada several years ago from sri lanka to be with him . tharshika jeganathan ' s life was cut short on sept . 11 when she was on her way home from dollarama , where she worked . her ex - husband , sasikaran thanapalasingam , is accused of killing her on the street with a machete . ( gofundme ) her ex - husband , sasikaran thanapalasingam , is accused of killing jeganathan in a brutal machete attack in september 2019 . he ' s been charged with first - degree murder . family lawyer archana medhekar , who works with domestic violence survivors in both toronto and peel region , says many new immigrants and newcomers to the country face difficulties when trying to get help for domestic violence . " these women really feel that they don ' t belong to this new community , " medhekar says . when their partners exert control over their day - to - day lives , cutting them off even more from canadian support systems , they ' re often left particularly vulnerable to violence , she adds . simple actions like opening a bank account or hailing a taxi can be nearly impossible , according to zafar , who arrived in canada as a teenage bride and was trapped in an abusive marriage for a decade before leaving with her two children during her undergraduate studies at the university of toronto . " newcomers , they have no money , no access to networks , no friends , so where do they go ? " she says . " for me , i came here as a kid , i had no friends of my own . the door was open , i could walk out — then what ? " family lawyer archana medhekar , who works with domestic violence survivors in both toronto and peel region , says many new immigrants and newcomers to the country face difficulties when trying to get help . ( lauren pelley / cbc news ) more support for immigrants needed , experts warnboth medhekar and zafar say there is a demand for more organizations catering to new immigrant women so victims have the resources to escape intimate - partner violence — before it turns deadly . " so many times women reach out to me saying , ' my counselor doesn ' t really get it when i say my father will die of shame if i leave my marriage , ' because they don ' t get the cultural side of it , " zafar explains . indus community services , based in peel region , is among the groups trying to reach out to immigrant women . the non - profit has an intake process in various south asian languages , including punjabi and hindi , where they ask about domestic violence history in relationships . gurpreet malhotra , the organization ' s ceo , says if someone is identified as a victim , the team offers culturally - appropriate support groups , services to help people navigate the court system , and english language classes to help them better integrate . samra zafar holds up an old photo of herself as a new mother . she came to canada as a teenage bride in an abusive arranged marriage , and now supports other women struggling with domestic violence . ( lauren pelley / cbc news ) last year alone , more than 1 , 400 individuals used those services . " we ' re getting closer and closer to a breaking point where we ' re not going to be able to serve , " malhotra warns . and he stresses with a rising population — and victim counts showing no signs of slowing — the need is far beyond what many cultural organizations can support . " we are seeing that turn into horrible headlines where women have been murdered by their partners , " malhotra says . " and that is something that must stop . " gurpreet malhotra is the ceo of indus community services , a non - profit that assists immigrants , including domestic violence victims . malhotra worries his organization is nearing a ' breaking point ' due to high demand . ( lauren pelley / cbc news ) ' at least i can breathe air ' in priya ' s case , she ' s thankful to be alive , but she continues to face barriers as a newcomer who ' s survived a violent marriage . after she escaped in 2018 , she took refuge with acquaintances and hid in a local gurdwara , a sikh place of worship , for days on end . in the meantime , her husband quickly deleted her whatsapp groups and changed her gmail password , she says . cutting off that access left her without evidence of his verbal abuse , priya continues , and little means of communication . warning : this story contains graphic and disturbing content . samra zafar survived domestic violence in an arranged marriage . she ’ s now a public speaker , author , and advocate supporting other women struggling with domestic violence . 4 : 02now 30 , she ' s still reeling from the trauma , and struggled to find work on her own in canada , despite gaining a master ' s degree in india . the job she has now barely covers her rent even with a roommate . even so , there ' s a newfound taste of freedom . after getting her first paycheque — one that went into her own bank account and wasn ' t sent off to a partner ' s family — she went to union station in toronto and bought a bagel for lunch . she ate it in tears , a mix of hunger and awe at finally being able to spend her own money . " at least i can breathe air , " she says . " i can breathe air without guilt , without headaches , without being assaulted . " if you need help and are in immediate danger , call 911 . to find assistance in your area , visit sheltersafe . ca or endingviolencecanada . org / getting - help . if you ' re worried someone you know may be experiencing intimate partner violence , here are some warning signs , according to the canadian red cross : 
__label__no_relevant don ' t let the pandemic erase decades of progress for girls ' education covid - 19 has made access to education a unifying , global concern . at one point , over 90 per cent of students worldwide were affected , including 743 million girls . more than 100 million of those girls live in developing countries where accessing education was already difficult . given the tenuous foothold many girls had on education in the first place , this pandemic could wipe out decades of progress and set back the future of an entire generation . girls ’ education is one of the best investments towards ending global poverty and achieving gender equality . according to the world bank , barriers that block girls from completing 12 years of education cost countries $15 trillion to $30 trillion in lost lifetime productivity and earnings . education is transformative for a girl : it delays marriage and pregnancy , improves her health and the health of her children if she has them , and increases her agency and decision - making power . with families shouldering new economic pressures caused by covid - 19 lockdowns , along with anxiety , isolation and hunger , the barriers to girls ’ education have grown , including : cost : even where school is free , parents must pay for school supplies . as families ’ incomes dwindle , the costs may become too great , exacerbated by harmful gender norms that undervalue girls ’ education as compared to boys . even where school is free , parents must pay for school supplies . as families ’ incomes dwindle , the costs may become too great , exacerbated by harmful gender norms that undervalue girls ’ education as compared to boys . child , early and forced marriage : some parents marry off their young daughters believing it will protect them and reduce family economic pressures , resulting in many violations of their rights , including ending their education . globally , 12 million girls are married before the age of 18 every year and unfpa projects the covid - 19 pandemic may result in 13 million additional child marriages . keeping girls in school is one of the best ways of preventing early and forced marriage . some parents marry off their young daughters believing it will protect them and reduce family economic pressures , resulting in many violations of their rights , including ending their education . globally , 12 million girls are married before the age of 18 every year and unfpa projects the covid - 19 pandemic may result in 13 million additional child marriages . keeping girls in school is one of the best ways of preventing early and forced marriage . unequal expectations around household chores and care work , caused by harmful gender norms : this burden is largely falling on girls , taking away study time and causing girls to fall behind or drop out . globally , women undertake more than three quarters of unpaid care work . this burden is largely falling on girls , taking away study time and causing girls to fall behind or drop out . globally , women undertake more than three quarters of unpaid care work . gender - based violence and pregnancy : girls isolated at home and out of school face increased risks of violence and sexual exploitation , escalating their risk of pregnancy and making it impossible to continue their studies . out - of - school girls have a higher risk of pregnancy and in many parts of the world , pregnant girls are prohibited from attending school . following the ebola crisis of 2014 , where schools were closed for months , there was a 65 per cent increase in adolescent pregnancy in sierra leone . when schools close , children lose more than education — school meal programs , sexual and reproductive health and rights information , contraception and menstrual products . they also lose daily contact with friends , teachers and systems designed to protect them . the longer girls remain cut off from education , the less likely they will return to school . from there , the setback to global poverty and gender equality goals — and most importantly , to realizing their rights — begins , deepening existing gender gaps . to stop the setback , there must be equitable access to quality , gender - responsive education . governments and decision - makers must be flexible , ensuring equal rights for all children to education , taking their unique gendered needs into account . for example , barriers to girls ’ education must be swiftly removed , including discriminatory policies preventing pregnant girls from attending school . " girls ’ education is one of the best investments towards ending global poverty and achieving gender equality . " where learning goes online , the gendered digital divide must be narrowed , including providing free and low - cost mobile internet access and digital literacy training for girls . low - tech learning options must be provided , such as radio and television broadcasts or sending learning materials home , coupled with regular information and at - home - learning guidance for caregivers . community sensitization on girls ’ education , shared domestic responsibilities and preventing and responding to gender - based violence and child marriage is vital to protect education gains for girls . finally , girls and young women in all their diversity must be consulted to help shape education policy and delivery that directly affect them . everyone has the power to make a difference . governments like canada ’ s must continue to invest in girls ’ education and champion girls ’ voices and participation . the canadian public can support organizations working in girls ’ education and directly contribute to keeping girls in school . i ’ ve seen the public rally behind girls ’ rights and i ’ m asking them to do this once again to stop the setback . covid - 19 could leave the world far worse off , or it could be the catalyst to address long - ignored inequalities . now is the time to prioritize girls ’ education , for the benefit of their families and communities , for the benefit of reaching global goals to end poverty , and most importantly — for girls themselves , to unleash their full potential . a better post - covid world cannot exist without empowered , educated girls . 
__label__no_relevant revolutionary toronto shelter will help heal abused men , their families new expositor series examines the hidden crisis of male - victim family violenceeditor ’ s note : the male victim experience of domestic violence and abuse is a topic that warrants closer examination to better understand this under - reported and stigmatized social issue . the expositor will be exploring various facets of this problem in future editions , beginning with an overview of the plans for the forthcoming ccmf shelter in toronto . toronto – the first - ever family shelter for abused fathers and children is edging closer to completion following an $80 , 000 gift from digital technology holding company grindstone capital to the canadian centre for men and families ( ccmf ) , aiming to create a first - of - its - kind facility to support an aspect of domestic violence that is often overlooked by the general population . “ imagine you and your child live each day in fear of violence , but no one believes you , ” said canadian centre for men and families executive director justin trottier . “ that is the situation for thousands of fathers every year . ” when thinking of the term domestic abuse , the first mental imagery that likely comes to mind is a raging man taking out his aggressions on a ( usually female ) partner or young children . while those situations certainly happen , they create a skewed perspective that fails to account for situations when men and their children are the victims of an abusive partner . statistics begin to reveal the truth behind domestic abuse and the lack of supports that exist for men . in canada , 75 percent of all people who die by suicide are men . police studies show that a majority of family violence victims are women , but when looking at the data for a broader population , the proportions move to nearly equal . why would those rates differ ? advocates cite two main reasons . first , male victimization within a family violence context is still heavily stigmatized , with men being more likely to be told to not speak out about their issues or “ be a man , ” which dismisses the existence of the problem and can make victims less likely to involve law enforcement for issues of this nature . secondly , police protocol for handling domestic violence situations tends to work through a gender lens that inherently gives more protection to women present in a situation . these policies come from a well - meaning place ; statistics show that although men and women are victims of domestic abuse nearly equally , when looking at individuals who experience physical harm , those numbers are highly skewed toward female victims . domestic homicide rates , which involves death at the hands of an intimate partner , show 75 percent being women and 25 percent being men . but not all incidents involve physical harm , nor are domestic disputes one - sided . family violence is most often “ bilateral , ” meaning both sides of a dispute are aggressive and violent . a british columbia study of police calls for partner violence incidents in 1993 revealed that officers declined to recommend charges against women 66 percent of the time , whereas they would refuse to recommend charges against men only 20 percent of the time . in the same province over a five - year average , when men were accused of abusing their partner , 70 . 4 percent were charged . however , when women were accused of being abusers , only 23 . 6 percent were charged . “ all of this tends to support the inference that police exercise their discretion in such a way as to treat female perpetrators more leniently than male perpetrators in general , ” wrote author grant a . brown in a 2004 study within the peer - reviewed journal sexuality and culture . the effects of violence on victims are long - lasting and are important to address . researchers have found that psychological impacts tend to be similar , regardless of a victim ’ s gender . a study of male victims who contacted the us national domestic abuse helpline found 58 percent had post - traumatic stress disorder , 20 percent had experienced extreme violence and more than three - quarters sustained injuries ( at an average rate of 11 per person ) . the statistics pointing toward a need for facilities for men and families , similar to those that exist for women and families , are compelling and lead to questions of why these centres have not existed to date . “ when we leave out victims because of their gender or sexual orientation—because abuse is also prevalent in same - sex relationships—they feel ignored , it leaves people vulnerable and alone to suffer in silence . regardless of one ’ s sexual orientation or gender they should have the same amount of support and also be believed when they talk to their friends and family , ” said mr . trottier . some shelters do exist which are gender agnostic and will welcome all victims of family violence . an example on manitoulin island is wiikwemkoong ’ s recently opened nookomisnaang shelter , although it can only accommodate a limited capacity of clients like all shelters . the only male - focused shelter currently in existence in canada is men ’ s resource centre in winnipeg , which welcomes victims from across manitoba to its emergency shelter and also runs healing programs and services . the national 2017 / 2018 survey of residential facilities for victims of abuse found that of 552 then - operating shelters across canada , 15 shelters—just under three percent—could accommodate either men or women , as well as their children . there was not a single shelter specifically serving men , or men and their children . the men ’ s resource centre was likely included within the 15 , as it is run as a sub - program of a women ’ s shelter . a 2020 edition of the above survey will be taking place between april and august of this year , which will provide more up - to - date figures on the status of the disparity in the country . 
__label__no_relevant cleanup begins after storm surge wreaks havoc on p . e . i . shoreline harbours around the island are taking stock of damage after thursday ' s storm surge . sheila eastman , the harbour manager for north lake , said the storm surge eroded the dunes by about three meters . " it ' s amazing as much as it is horrible when you think about all the work that ' s ahead , " she said . " mother nature ' s an incredible lady and this was her show . " some of the north lake harbour buildings were damaged and eastman noticed a few sinkholes around the property . the mess left from the storm will take a while to clean up , she said . there is now a tide gauge connected to the storm surge early warning system here at north lake harbour . ( jeff macneill ) by friday afternoon , floodwaters had subsided in north lake . ( brian higgins / cbc ) eastman said the province has been notified about the damage . she is concerned that sand and debris in the harbour will require extra dredging , but they won ' t know for sure until the spring . at basin head on p . e . i . ' s southeastern shore , fisherman jeff macneill said the damage could have been much worse had it not been for the rocks and seawall . a set of stairs was among the debris scattered on p . e . i . ' s north shore after thursday ' s storm . ( brian higgins / cbc ) ' there ' s obviously a little bit of destruction with the sand dune blasted away , ' said jeff macneill , who was happy the damage at basin head wasn ' t worse . ( brian higgins / cbc ) " with this breakwater , like it definitely held a lot of the dune from drifting away yesterday with all the water coming through — it probably held thousands and thousands of yards of sand there for sure . " he said he thinks the storm may affect the fishing industry . " with the sea over there smashing on the surf , it ' s got to be hard on our lobster bottom for sure . " more p . e . i . news
__label__no_relevant solastalgia is the specific grief and anxiety caused by climate change gioachino roberti via the canadian press climate change is causing glaciers atop mount meager , in british columbia , to shrink . scientists are exploring the specific grief caused by climate change . his canvases are painted from first - hand observation by a brush wielded in the outdoors and glow with the colours of the canadian wilderness . but british columbia artist dominik modlinski doesn ' t take his paints into the woods much anymore . " i felt i can ' t go on my painting trips because everything is covered in smoke , " he said . " i can ' t go to some areas i love to go because you can ' t see anything . " i feel somebody is controlling my life and i can ' t do anything about it . it does affect my mood . " mental - health researchers around the world are taking notice of what people feel when the world they ' ve always known changes gradually or suddenly from climate change . some call it environmental grief , some call it solastalgia — a word coined for a feeling of homesickness when home changes around you . darryl dyck / the canadian press the shovel lake wildfire burns near the nadleh whut ' en first nation in fort fraser , b . c . , on aug . 23 , 2018 . the american psychological association has released a lengthy report into solastalgia . so has the british medical journal the lancet . australian farmers report rising levels of depression as their drought - stricken lands blow away . an international group of climate scientists maintain a website entitled is this how you feel ? house of commons committees have discussed it . health canada is exploring the topic . " it is gaining more traction , " said researcher katie hayes from the university of toronto . in canada , memorial university professor ashlee cunsolo released a paper in 2013 on inuit in the tiny labrador community of rigolet . people spoke of the sorrow they felt about being cut off from places they ' d visited for generations because of vanishing sea ice . deep sadness , anxiety , pain " people talked about deep sadness , " cunsolo said . " people talked about anxiety . a lot of different words for pain . a lot of trembling in the voice . there were definitely tears . people were feeling displaced in their homes . " sometimes it happens slowly , sometimes all at once . hayes has been looking into the effects of the 2013 flood in high river , alta . , the sort of catastrophic event that is expected to occur more and more . jeff mcintosh / the canadian press two men use a fishing boat to rescue residents from a neighborhood after heavy rains caused flooding , closed roads , and forced evacuation in high river , alta . , in june of 2013 . " there are still lingering effects from the flood , " she said . " there ' s anxiety when it rains , on the anniversary , as ( people ) cross the bridge to go into high river . " kids crawl into bed with mom and dad when the clouds open . people thinking about that box of christmas decorations in the basement catch themselves when they realize it ' s gone . " people would talk about the smell of musty moldiness or the sound of a generator coming on . it gets them welled up . it gets them nervous . it gets them recalling the flood , everything that they lost . " the impacts could be broad , long - lastinga university of alberta study found similar effects 18 months after the wildfire in fort mcmurray , alta . , that destroyed one - tenth of the city . a survey of visitors to health - care facilities found high levels of post - traumatic stress and anxiety disorders as well as substance abuse . " we ' re looking at broader psycho - social impacts , things like weakened social ties or increased addictions or even increased aggression in relation to domestic violence , " said peter berry , science adviser at health canada . " some of the impacts can take place right away or take months or even years . " nor are disasters the only way weather related to climate change can cause stress . " volatility , " said ron bonnett of the canadian federation of agriculture . " what we ' re seeing is a lot more variation than we did in the past . " powerlessness is a big part of solastalgiafarmers can endure months without rain , then see their fields submerged in a cloudburst . more than just a business , farms are a home and a tradition and that can raise the mental stakes , bonnett said . " there ' s almost a mental block : ' what do i do next ? how do i make a decision ? ' you ' re just paralyzed . all you can see is that crop lying out there that you can ' t get off . " jonathan hayward / the canadian press a wildfire rips through the forest by highway 63 , 16 kilometres south of fort mcmurray , alta . on may 7 , 2016 . the words " paralyzed " and " powerless " come up often when solastalgia is discussed . feeling there ' s nothing you can do is doubly corrosive , said julia payson of the canadian mental health association in b . c . ' s okanagan region , where fires and evacuations have been a constant feature of recent summers . " powerlessness tells you you can ' t fix this and you ' re not going to stop feeling bad . there ' s no point in reaching out , in gathering with community and seeing what you can do . " in fact , she said reaching out is one of the best ways of coping . " powerlessness breeds a feeling of isolation and when we can break that down by building community , it makes a huge difference . " we acknowledge our feelings . we know it ' s important to have them . we look for people to support us , we look for actions we can take to take back a feeling of control . " experts recommend reaching out , and spending time outsidegreat advice , said thomas doherty , who has a mental - health practice in portland , ore . , that helps people feeling environmental grief . people can feel like a " climate hostage " trapped by avalanches of information with little action from their leaders . doherty suggests finding a way to get involved and do something . he has another prescription : get outside . " it is part of the coping . it gets you in touch with life , with things that are larger than you . " but until things change , get used to solastalgia , said modlinski . " as an artist who paints the canadian north , i have witnessed the slow , creeping climate change that is happening . the emotional environmental grief i feel will be a widespread anxiety . it ' s going to happen . " i don ' t think our health system is even prepared to deal with it . " 
__label__no_relevant coronavirus uk : couple dash to altar to marry before church closes while others cancel weddings an engaged couple due to marry over the easter weekend made a mad dash to the altar to get hitched yesterday after their church announced it was going into lockdown due to the coronavirus . jessica whitfield , 34 , and farm manager andrew peal , 31 , from norfolk , were due to get married on april 11 . but yesterday lunchtime they received a call from their vicar , reverend sian reading , to say southrepps church was closing its doors at 6pm - and she didn ' t know when it would reopen to perform marriages . they were offered a quick service at 5pm , provided the register was signed within an hour , so the couple decided to go for it . jessica whitfield , 34 , and farm manager andrew peal , 31 , from norfolk , made a mad dash to the altar to get hitched yesterday after their church announced it was going into lockdown due to the coronavirusjessica , operations director at jewellers winsor bishop , told femail : ' we didn ' t want to lose sight of why we were getting married . we had prepared and looked forward to it for a long time and decided to go for it . ' andrew had to dash home from the farm , throw a suit on and select and pack my dress , which i changed into at the church before the intimate ceremony in front of immediate family who were available . ' the couple had 200 people booked to attend their easter nuptials , travelling in from all over the world , but just 10 people watched them tie the knot yesterday , including their parents and susan the corgi as a bridesmaid . andrew ' s father , patrick peal , stepped in as andrew ' s best man . ' the ceremony was small , intimate and romantic - the church managed to get an organist last minute so that i could walk down the aisle , ' jess continued . yesterday lunchtime the couple received a call from their vicar , reverend sian reading , to say southrepps church was closing its doors at 6pm - and she didn ' t know when it would reopen to perform marriagesjess and andrew were offered a quick service at 5pm , provided the register was signed within an hour , so the couple decided to go for itthe couple had 200 people booked to attend their easter nuptials , travelling in from all over the world , but just 10 people watched them tie the knot yesterday , including their parents and susan the corgi as a bridesmaid . andrew ' s father , patrick peal , stepped in as andrew ' s best man ' it lasted 30 minutes and we had a reception at a local restaurant , gunton arms - and the reverend came too ! ' we were the only table in the restaurant and the owners kindly found us a private room to stay the night in . ' we had breakfast as husband and wife this morning and then i went into work ! it feels surreal but we ' re on cloud nine - it was the best impulsive decision we ' ve ever made . ' it ' s too early to know whether the couple are set to lose any money from cancelling their easter reception . they plan to hold their celebrations later in the year . jessica said getting married after spending just four hours organising it was ' the best impulsive decision we ' ve ever made ' it ' s too early to know whether the couple are set to lose any money from cancelling their easter reception . they plan to hold their celebrations later in the year . pictured left : jess with her father and right : the happy couple cut the cake at the gunton armson her arrival at work today , jess received a very warm and celebratory welcome from her colleagues at winsor bishopjess ' colleague emily warden said : ' from all of us here at winsor bishop we wish them a lifetime of love and happiness . jess was back to work today to a very warm welcome by the team . ' meanwhile other defiant couples are making emergency plans to reschedule their dream weddings due to the coronavirus pandemic . with new government advice being dished out daily , brides - to - be across the nation have had to make the difficult decision to cancel their upcoming nuptials - but others have come up with creative ways to ensure they can still say ' i do ' . melanie murphy , from ireland , took to instagram and shared a snap of herself and her husband thomas - before explaining she wasn ' t wearing her actual wedding dress , nor was it their planned wedding day in their perfect venue with all of their friends and family . she explained : ' it ' s not the one i ' ve lived out in my head a thousand times as we planned away - * but * this man , folks , is now officially my husband ! ' melanie murphy , from ireland , took to twitter and told how she had to adjust her wedding due to updated irish government advice on coronavirus prevention . pictured , with her husband , thomasmelaniie explained : ' this isn ' t my actual wedding dress and this wasn ' t our big , planned wedding day ' ( pictured ) it comes as the archbishop of canterbury justin welby suspended church of england services yesterday amid the coronavirus lockdown - but weddings and funerals could still go ahead . due to updated irish government advice on coronavirus prevention , melanie and thomas had to cancel their wedding ceremony and reception , which was due to happen this week . ' we couldn ' t , in good conscience , go ahead with it when we ' d be putting people at risk against government advice and of course we were sad and angry and we ' ve lost a considerable amount of money on deposits & non - refundables , ' she said . the newlywed continued : ' at 2pm yesterday we said our vows in a registry office . we were going to do this anyway , a few days ahead of a humanist ceremony in wicklow ( was meant to happen saturday coming ) . melanie , who also shared this adorable snap on social media , penned : ' a fancy wedding is a privilege , a bonus , a cherry on top kinda thing . love is all we need during these difficult times ' ' we did so in the presence of some family members as witnesses and in spite of the simplicity , it was * so * special . . . dad walked me down the aisle to a gift of thistle from braveheart and we finally got to exchange our wedding rings . tears all round . ' melanie went on to explain that while they still plan on having a big celebration down the line in a couple of years , a strong marriage is what they really care about . ' a fancy wedding is a privilege , a bonus , a cherry on top kinda thing . love is all we need during these difficult times . anyway f * * * , lads , i ' m a wife ! ' she added . it wasn ' t such a happy ending for gemma stubbs , 30 , and derek nally , 36 , who have been engaged for seven years and hoped to tie the knot on their anniversary . the couple have been forced to cancel their special day due to the coronavirus , and admit the decision has left them ' broken ' . it wasn ' t such a happy ending for gemma stubbs , 30 , and derek nally , 36 , who had to cancel their wedding . they have been engaged for seven years and hoped to tie the knot on their anniversarythey were due to marry this saturday - to coincide with the date they first went out together - and the ceremony would have come seven years after derek ' s proposal all the way in august 2012 . despite their enormous disappointment , the pair said they believe it was the right thing to do . another couple forced to cancel their wedding later this month is sophie hancill , 30 , and graeme jones , 32 , who live in essex with their two - year - old daughter clara . they had planned to go ahead with the nuptials , booked for march 28 at st mary ' s church in astbury followed by a reception at alcumlow wedding barn in cheshire , but on monday night graeme arrived home from work with a persistent cough . another couple forced to cancel their wedding later this month is sophie hancill , 30 , and graeme jones , 32 , who live in essex with their two - year - old daughter clarasophie told femail she is pretty sure graeme has coronavirus and he is now quarantined in their bedroom - much to her daughter ' s confusion . ' he feels ok in himself , it ’ s a really bad cough , his temperature ’ s been going up and down and he ’ s got achey legs , ' she explained . ' he can only hold his breath for two seconds before he starts choking . you don ’ t do the test unless you are in a risk two category and you need medical attention , so we won ' t ever know for sure if he ' s got it , but i ' m pretty sure he has . ' our daughter is a very confused and a bit stressed out because daddy ’ s locked in the bedroom and she can ’ t see him . he ’ s been watching us play outside from the bedroom window , that ’ s how we see him . ' the couple , who both work in insurance and have been together almost five years , had planned to forge ahead with the wedding and video it for guests that could no longer make it , but graeme ' s condition has meant sophie and clara have to self - isolate for two weeks , during which it was due to take place . they now plan to tie the knot on december 4 and are re - planning their spring nuptials for a winter wedding - meaning they won ' t be able to have their wedding photos on the daffodil - packed lawn where graeme proposed ( pictured ) as they ' d planned ' it forced us to make a decision we were probably going to have to make anyway , ' sophie said , adding that her venue and suppliers have been very understanding , letting them re - book for alternative dates at no extra cost . they now plan to tie the knot on december 4 and are re - planning their spring nuptials for a winter wedding . ' we wanted our wedding in march , because it was exactly a year from when my partner proposed , on mother ’ s day weekend last year , ' she said . ' the green in front of the church where we were getting married has daffodils in front of it – that ' s where he proposed , and we did it a year later so that the daffodils would be out again on our wedding day and we could get lovely pictures on the daffodil green . it ' s upsetting we won ' t get those . ' but i don ’ t want to wait another year - we were so close and i can ’ t bear the thought of waiting another year . ' the couple , who both work in insurance and have been together almost five years , had planned to forge ahead with the wedding and video it for guests that could no longer make it , but graeme ' s condition has meant sophie and clara have to self - isolate for two weeks , during which it was due to take placewhile they ' ve been lucky that relatives coming from overseas have had accommodation and flights refunded , sophie said she ' ll have to find her little girl a new outfit , as hers will no longer fit in december . ' i also have a young bridesmaid who had her dress specially made - it might fit her in december , ' she said . ' and we ' ll have to pay out for warmer attire ! ' having to cancel their wedding has caused an extra headache for andy shaw 34 , from guisborough , and his fiancee sarah felpel , 25 , from philadelphia , usa , who have conducted a long - distance relationship for three years . andy , who is currently based in whitby and works in a supermarket , and sarah were due to wed at robin hoods bay in north yorkshire on april 4 , after planning their wedding in just two months . ‘we finally decided to make the jump as it would make life easier , as with our visa situation only one of us at a time can work at the moment depending on which country we ’ re in , ’ andy told femail . having to cancel their wedding has caused an extra headache for andy shaw 34 , from guisborough , and his fiancee sarah felpel , 25 , from philadelphia , usa , who have conducted a long - distance relationship for three years‘the wedding was going to put an end to all the difficulties of a long distance relationship and make our love and lives easier , so that we could focus on our lives together without all the red tape , back and forth travel and time distance . after a difficult three years , the end was almost in sight . ‘after looking at our slim options we decided to get sarah the marriage visitor visa for the uk and get married here so that we could then apply for immigration status in the us , to minimise our time apart . doing it the other way around would have been very expensive . ’ sadly andy and sarah have had to cancel their ceremony and the reception , but are still hoping to go ahead with the legal side of things on their original date , without their beloved friends and family . sadly andy and sarah have had to cancel their ceremony and the reception , but are still hoping to go ahead with the legal side of things on their original date , without their beloved friends and family‘we had friends coming from all over the world who had to cancel , ’ andy explained . ‘we don ’ t have wedding insurance – when we started to thing we might need it , we missed the cut off by a few hours . ‘obviously it ’ s very sad , and it ’ s worse for sarah because she ’ s isolated from her family in the us . we had broken our backs trying to make this all happen over a couple of months , only to see it collapse overnight . ‘it ’ s an anxious waiting game now to see if we will still be able to do the legal side of things . it ’ s a tense time , but at the same time you have to be subjective and understand how much worse this is for other people and the losses they will face . ’ another couple due to get married on saturday 28 march was ronja richards , 27 , and her partner dominic rogers , 26 , after two years of planning and eight - and - a - half years together . another couple due to get married on saturday 28 march was ronja richards , 27 , and her partner dominic rogers , 26 , after two years of planning and eight - and - a - half years togetherthe couple , from newport , south wales , were holding the entire event for 80 guests at orchardleigh estate , a stately home , getting married at an on - site church . many of ronja ’ s family members are swedish , meaning they had more than 20 guests coming from the region , and another family member currently lives in spain . the couple paid for everything in full , costing around £28 , 000 , last month - never expecting the spread of the virus to escalate so quickly . ‘we were aware that things could be non - refundable and were just hoping that the insurance we had gone with would be good enough should the worst happen . you just don ’ t expect this ! ’ ronja told femail . ‘we cancelled on saturday evening last week , after sweden banned international travel . this came hours after finding out that our honeymoon was to be cancelled too . we just sat there in shock and cried . the couple , from newport , south wales , were holding the entire event for 80 guests at orchardleigh estate , a stately home , getting married at an on - site church‘i think we had been in the mindset that we would be the lucky ones and that the coronavirus wouldn ’ t be peaking for quite some time , but it seems to have gone from zero to 100 within a matter of days . ‘we were devastated as we saw our wedding as an opportunity to finally have our families come together and have something to celebrate for a change . we also have family members that fall into the high risk category and as much as we knew they would want to be there , it ’ s a risk that we would never feel comfortable with . ‘i ’ ve decided to take my honeymoon leave early to just take some time to process it all . it ’ s been a lot to deal with and the thought of having to pack all of our wedding stuff away makes me very upset . ’ thankfully orchardleigh estate has been very supportive and let them reschedule , and ronja said they now feel relieved that they no longer have the stress of worrying about their elderly relatives who were due to attend . ‘you ’ re supposed to be excited and we were sick with worry , constantly checking the news and it was really taking its toll , ’ she said . many of ronja ’ s family members are swedish , meaning they had more than 20 guests coming from the region , and another family member currently lives in spain‘i feel for the brides who are still going through that . we ’ re extremely deflated that the day we ’ ve been looking forward to and planning for so long isn ’ t for another seven or eight months , but at least we ’ re getting married ! ‘our honeymoon has been completely cancelled and as our insurance will only speak to passengers flying within 10 days , we really don ’ t know where we stand . ‘we were supposed to be going the day after the wedding for three - and - a - half weeks , flying over to california to do a road trip and then to mexico to finish there . the majority of our trip was booked with a package travel provider who have also been fantastic , but a lot of our america trip we had booked separately , so we know trying to sort this out will be a headache . ‘we are also worried that if we rebook anything now we won ’ t be covered by insurance which is a real worry for us . we ’ ve not been on holiday for a couple of years whilst saving for the wedding , so we were so ready to switch off from the world . ’ brentford - based couple salman shaheen and anna ward , who got engaged in spain in september last year , were meant to be celebrating their special day at the end of may , but have taken the difficult decision to reschedule . brentford - based couple salman shaheen and anna ward were meant to be celebrating their special day at the end of may , but have taken the difficult decision to reschedulethey spent last weekend on the phone frantically re - organising their nuptials , due to be held at strawberry hill house in richmond , south west london , because they were concerned about the risk it could pose to their parents and elderly relatives who are in the high risk category for catching coronavirus . salman , 35 , told mylondon : ' we were really excited about it…we were preparing for the wedding , we had just booked the cake , anna had got her dress . we booked the string quartet and a dj . ' slowly this coronavirus was creeping and creeping up and at first we had a discussion , should we postpone the wedding ? at that moment it was a month ago , only a small handful of cases here in the uk . but in the last week everything kicked off . ' unfortunately the peak is slap bang when we ' d have our wedding . we have got family , relatives who are in the higher risk category… it would be such a shame if they couldn ' t come . ' he added that ' a cloud of fear ' was gathering over what was supposed to be the happiest time of their lives . it ' s likely the couple , both former journalists , will also have to abandon their planned hen and stag dos . anna was due to be heading to spain while salman was looking forward to a london pub crawl . the couple got engaged in spain in september last year but were worried about the health of their older relatives if they went ahead with their may wedding . pictured : anna after the surprise proposalluckily salman and anna have managed to reschedule their big day for september , by which point they hope the uk will be over the worst . the venue has been very accommodating and allowed them to move the dates , as has the registrar and suit hire company . ' fingers crossed we don ' t have to postpone it again , ' salman told femail . he also expressed his wish to thank strawberry hill house and madeleine ' s cakes , as well as richmond council for their help and support . meanwhile lauren and tom , from london , booked a barn - style venue back in april 2019 - near to where the bride - to - be grew up - and are still unsure whether their dream day will go ahead . lauren and tom , from london , are still unsure whether their dream wedding in a barn - style venue will go ahead on may 2 ' the process of planning the wedding has been loads of fun - family and friends have been really involved in the process , invites have gone out , dresses and suits bought , a ridiculous amount of decorations made - many personalised with the may 2020 date . to be honest , everything has gone without a hitch . . . until now , ' explained lauren . spokesperson for bingham riverhouse venue commented : ' we ’ ve been contacted by many of our couples who are getting married over the course of the next two - three months . ' ' they ' re all extremely worried as news of the coronavirus spreads . they want to understand what their options are and almost express guilt in thinking of themselves and their big day as this news of this epidemic changes . ' ' some of the couples are adamant that their big day will go ahead as scheduled , but with an anticipation that there may be fewer guests from overseas and the elderly . ' ' some just want to move the dates to later on in the year with some of the winter month ' s now becoming more popular . some don ' t want to act just yet , they just want to know what we ' re doing as a business and will see what happens over the next 6 - 8 weeks before the make / change their plans . ' ' everyone , without fail , has been completely supportive with the emerging situation , the need to put everyone ' s health and safety first and how we ' re trying to look after all of our bingham riverhouse staff and keep them all employed over the coming weeks / months . ' advertisement ' we first heard about coronavirus at the start of the year , but thought nothing more of it . then the stories started getting worse and the paranoia set in . ' the couple ' s final wedding planning meeting took place a few days after the worst stories about coronavirus came out - and lauren says the venue have been very reassuring . ' they ' ve said they wanted to go full steam ahead until they heard otherwise , ' said lauren . ' we asked about postponing but were told that wasn ' t possible for the time - being - they ' d only cancel if the government said they had to . ' a few days on and our stag and hen do have been cancelled ( and we assume the same for our honeymoon abroad ) . ' we ' re also guessing the wedding won ' t be going ahead . we intend to speak to the venue again very shortly . ' while the couple fortunately have insurance , they are left unsure as to how much this will cover , or whether suppliers will be available at a later date . ' it ' s the not knowing that makes it worse , ' said lauren . ' when should we even reschedule it for , if we can ? we ' ll never get this time back and it ' s ruined what is meant to be one of the happiest times of our lives . ' another couple in limbo are colette , 25 , and jamie , 27 , from belfast , who got engaged in april last year and were due to marry in marbella , spain , on june 18 . ' we have been planning this for over a year and have flights , accommodation for five nights and a venue booked - everything is ready to go , ' colette told femail . ' we don ' t have many guests - only 10 - but we have all been looking forward to a big family get together . another couple in limbo are colette , 25 , and jamie , 27 , from belfast , who got engaged in april last year and were due to marry in marbella , spain , on june 18 ' we have planned a humanist wedding in spain , so have booked the legal part at a registry office in belfast city hall the week before we fly . ' now if we can ' t fly to spain , we don ' t know if we will postpone the whole marriage and wedding or go ahead with the official registry . ' we have talked about it and we would rather wait and have our dream wedding - but who knows what the future holds and how long it will be before we can have our day . ' colette and jamie ( pictured ) had a humanist wedding planned in spain with a registry office ceremony in belfast before , and are now unsure whether to postpone the whole marriage and wedding or go ahead with the official partcolette , a mental health blogger , added : ' the wedding means so much to us ! we are still quite young and decided to get engaged and married young because we wanted our whole family to be able to attend . ' on both sides of our family we have had cancer and really stressful health situations , and so we wanted to celebrate together while we could . we have all planned to stay in the same villa and have a big holiday together . ' sadly jamie ' s mum passed away in january of this year very suddenly , and when that happened we felt we needed this time together even more . this has been a very hard year and we are really disappointed about the likelihood of the wedding being cancelled . ' after a difficult start to the year which saw jamie lose his mother very suddenly , colette told how the wedding meant everything to them as they ' d decided to get married young so their family could all attendluckily the couple had only paid their deposits as it isn ' s until june , and they are able to get a refund from their airbnb villa and should be able to claim back their flights if they ' re unable to travel to spain . ' i ' m not sure how much money we will lose , maybe £1 , 000 to £2 , 000 , but we aren ' t even thinking about that . hopefully if we have to postpone , everyone will maintain good health and we will get our dream wedding . ' holly eason and her fiancé , who have been planning their april wedding in their hometown of tokyo , have had to cancel everything due to risk of guests being exposed to infection . ' i couldn ' t forgive myself if our celebration became the cause of a serious health condition , ' holly said , speaking to the bbc . ' i ' m also worried that my dad and my brother wouldn ' t be allowed to enter japan . we just don ' t know what the situation will be at the time and i wouldn ' t want to go ahead without them being here . ' her father mike , who lives in leciestershire , added the family are now struggling to get refunds and are looking to lose around £5 , 000 . meanwhile , saavan nathwani and risha modi , from harrow in london , told how in just one week , they were due to celebrate their dream wedding in tuscany , italy . ' in a matter of one week , our world was turned upside down , when the outbreak in italy was announced , ' said risha , speaking to the publication . ' we had been planning for this wedding for nearly six months . we both work full - time and even though it has been a stressful and bumpy road , the only thing that kept us going was knowing we would marry one another . ' 
__label__no_relevant lawyer mike king named n . l . ' s first police watchdog st . john ' s defence lawyer mike king has been named newfoundland and labrador ' s first serious - incident response team director , heading up investigations involving the province ' s two police forces . the announcement was made wednesday morning at confederation building . justice minister andrew parsons promised a team in january following a number of investigations into incidents involving royal newfoundland constabulary and rcmp officers . the province ' s serious - incident response team will have the mission of looking into " matters of significant public interest that involve police . " those matters could involve anything from death to serious injury to domestic violence . justice minister andrew parsons announced king as the director of the province ' s first police oversight team wednesday morning . ( cbc ) king is part of the well - known law firm sullivan breen king , and has represented accused in high - profile cases before . he represented ray newman , who was acquitted of killing his estranged wife , chrissy predham newman , in 2012 . the case generated massive public interest , due in part to policing errors that resulted in a large amount of evidence obtained by the royal newfoundland constabulary being excluded from trial . king was chair of the criminal justice section of the canadian bar association – newfoundland and labrador from 2012 to 2017 . " i feel my years of experience as criminal defence lawyer as well as working prosecutions has prepared me well for the position , " king said . " a big part of doing criminal work is reviewing investigations and ensuring that they ' re done properly and appropriately . " the department of justice and public safety said king was " selected for inclusion in the 2019 edition of the best lawyers in canada for his work in criminal defence ; one of only four lawyers listed for criminal defence in newfoundland and labrador . " director to build teamking will be responsible for hiring the rest of his team . the director can ' t have any ties to law enforcement but must have a law degree . they ' ll hire an assistant and second officers from the two forces for helping with investigations . parsons earlier expressed interest in creating a team due to concerns he said he ' d heard from the public about the province ' s lack of independent oversight . teams in alberta and nova scotia have provided help with investigations in the past but can no longer do so , parsons said earlier this year . the heads of both the rnc and rcmp were on hand for the news conference and are supportive of the team to inspire public confidence in policing . the sirt director will be allowed to lay criminal charges . there are 10 active cases involving possible police misconduct , and parsons said king has the discretion to take those cases over . " that ' s something mr . king will determine along the way . i think the big thing now is setting up the office , getting information , but he ' ll have every ability to review those , " parsons said . king will begin a five - year term sept . 30 . read more from cbc newfoundland and labrador
__label__no_relevant jets snapshots : maurice can relate to the painful experience of nhl coaches getting fired another week , another big - name nhl coach gets fired . this time it was a shocker as the vegas golden knights brought down the axe on gerard gallant , who led them to the stanley cup final in 2018 as an expansion team . with the knights on the bubble to make the playoffs this season , gallant was shown the door and was replaced by former sharks coach pete deboer , who was fired by san jose in mid - december . among the other head coaches who have been fired this year are peter laviolette ( nashville ) and mike babcock ( toronto ) , who have both taken teams to the stanley cup final . in total , six nhl coaches have been fired this season — including jim montgomery in dallas and john hynes in new jersey —and another , bill peters in calgary , resigned . winnipeg jets head coach paul maurice has been fired a few times during his 25 - year nhl career , and he ’ s sure a lot of his colleagues have been going through painful times . “ it ’ s a very painful experience , ” maurice said . “ it ’ s a very personal , yet very public , experience . “ i think this is the best analogy : you ’ re in a marriage , you love the woman but it ’ s getting a little bit rocky . then you come home one day and she says ‘paul , we ’ re going in a different direction and there ’ s gonna be a press conference in three hours and we ’ re gonna talk about how great the new husband ’ s gonna be . ’ “ so , it ’ s tough . you put your heart and soul into it and then you ’ re out . ” maurice and jon cooper of the tampa bay lightning , who will play in winnipeg on friday night , are the two longest tenured coaches in the nhl . maurice is in his fifth season , cooper his eighth . “ stay low , ” maurice joked , when asked how they manage it . “ it ’ s a lonely experience and it ’ s not easy getting fired . you ’ re passionately committed to your team and this is not a part - time job and it ’ s not casual . you lose , you think about that right until the puck drops the next game . you ’ re all in it , completely committed to it and it goes from 100 miles an hour down to zero , like that . “ what makes it easier is , if you ’ ve got some experience and you ’ ve done some quality work , you ’ re probably gonna get another chance . ” to that end , deboer , who is one of maurice ’ s best friends , was out of work for less than a month , “ when pete got fired i wasn ’ t sad for him because i knew he was gonna be back , ” maurice said . “ i didn ’ t know it was gonna be 30 days . i thought he might get to enjoy the entire month of january . “ but he ’ s gonna be ok . he has coached a long time in the nhl . ” entering play thursday , the jets were tied with the golden knights for the final western conference wild - card playoff spot with 54 points , but had two games in hand . no goal for bitettothe last time anthony bitetto scored an nhl goal was nov . 18 , 2017 , so you can imagine how excited he was when he saw his shot go in on tuesday against the vancouver canucks . “ i feel like most people , when they score a goal in the nhl , they ’ re gonna be happy , ” bitetto said . “ it ’ s not like i score many of them , so when it goes in , obviously i ’ m gonna be happy . ” unfortunately , the canucks challenged for offside and the goal was overturned , taking away bitetto ’ s first of the season . the same thing happened to defenceman carl dahlstrom earlier this season . “ it ’ s unfortunate but it was offside and they made the right call , ” bitetto said . “ you ’ ve just got to live with it and i don ’ t think there ’ s any more to it . it ’ s a bummer , but we had a lot of time left in that game and we had to re - focus that . ” bitetto ’ s goal would have given the jets a 2 - 0 lead , but they didn ’ t let the off - side ruling deter them , as they went on to win 4 - 0 . more changes on blue - linedespite having a huge amount of upheaval on their blue - line , the jets enter friday ’ s game sitting 13th in the nhl in goals against per game . a great deal of that is owed to the play of goaltender connor hellebuyck , but the patchwork defence is doing a better job than most people would have expected it could . off - season departures , dustin byfuglien ’ s suspension , and injuries have forced the jets to use nine different defencemen this season , with the pairings changing on a regular basis . for friday ’ s game , dmitry kulikov will return from the flu and play with josh morrissey , while neal pionk will play alongside sami niku and bitetto will play with luca sbisa . dahlstrom has been diagnosed with a broken bone in his hand and will be out six weeks . “ the biggest thing is we all practice together and we rotate , especially when there ’ s seven of us out there , ” bitetto said . “ we all play with each other at different times . “ the biggest thing is try to find something that guy does and stick with it , so we keep it simple . i ’ ve played with ( sbisa ) before and it doesn ’ t matter who you are playing with , just play hard . ” while many people point to the jets defence group as the reason the team has given up the most shots in the league , maurice is continually impressed with their work . “ it ’ s kind of their ability to get off the mat and compete every game , ” maurice said . “ we have a really unique group back there right now and every one of them has found a way to do what they do really well as their no . 1 thing . ” nathan beaulieu and tucker poolman , who have been regulars this season , are both currently injured , so guys such as niku , sbisa and bitetto are getting regular turns . poolman has been placed on injured reserve , so it ’ s likely the jets will recall a defenceman from the manitoba moose of the ahl before they embark on a three - game road trip to chicago , carolina and columbus this weekend . “ there ’ s been some difficulties , just with changeover of partners and handedness , perhaps , but all in all i think we ’ ve handled it pretty well , ” morrissey said after practice at bell mts place on thursday . “ we have a great group of guys , we all get along and we all want to help each other . “ there are some difficulties to it for sure but we ’ ve really had the mentality that no matter who ’ s out there or who you are with , the other team doesn ’ t care . at the end of the day , you ’ ve got to make plays , make defensive plays and get the job done . “ that ’ s been our m . o . this year . you can listen to the white noise or the critics or whatever you want but at the end of the day , when you ’ re out there , there ’ s nothing you can do but make the play and play as hard as you can . i think we ’ ve been doing a pretty good job of it . ” twyman@postmedia . comtwitter . com / ted_wyman
__label__no_relevant ‘i ’ m not willing to go ’ : canadian truckers worry about entering u . s . due to coronavirus send this page to someone via emailtravelling to the united states is likely not on the list of things to do this summer for many canadians . in fact , a recent ipsos poll found 93 per cent of canadians believed travelling to the u . s . this summer would be too risky . the way some u . s . officials have handled the novel coronavirus pandemic , including reopening the economy when the number of cases continues to rise , has health experts and casual observers worried about what might happen if canada were to reopen its border too soon . but for truckers , who are exempt from canada ’ s 14 - day isolation rules and whose livelihoods often depend upon making back - and - forth journeys between the two countries — transporting everything from raw materials to a huge chunk of canada ’ s food supply — crossing the border isn ’ t something they can necessarily refuse . story continues below advertisementyet some drivers are doing just that . worried they could catch the virus and then transmit it to family members and others once back in canada , they ’ re turning down work in the u . s . in favour of staying closer to home . “ i just don ’ t trust them , ” said dan carson , a truck driver from southern ontario who refuses to work in the u . s . 1 : 57 coronavirus : some canadian cross - border families still unable to reunite coronavirus : some canadian cross - border families still unable to reunite “ ( americans ) just don ’ t seem to take it serious , even with all the numbers and the hotspots , which is basically half the states right now . ” since early june , the number of daily confirmed cases of covid - 19 in the u . s . has accelerated rapidly , especially in states such as florida , texas , arizona and california , which continue to set records , both for the number of cases and deaths . story continues below advertisementsome american politicians , including u . s . president donald trump , have also dismissed or downplayed concerns raised by health experts about the virus while urging local and state governments to ease restrictions meant to slow its spread . for carson , who said he used to cross the windsor - detroit border multiple times a week and who usually vacations in florida during the winter , the uncertainty of what to expect in the u . s . is enough to make him stay home . “ i ’ m not about to risk going down into the u . s . and finding out you ’ ve got to sit inside a crowded drivers ’ room with someone who refuses to wear a mask or thinks it ’ s all a bunch of malarkey , ” he said . trucking ‘essential ’ to economyaccording to transport canada , roughly 30 , 000 trucks cross the canada - u . s . border every day , carrying an estimated $1 billion in goods . while the overall number of travellers entering canada each week has dropped significantly compared to last year — by as much as 97 per cent according to statistics provided by the canada border services agency — cross - border commercial traffic has remained relatively stable throughout the pandemic , with weekly declines averaging between 10 and 30 per cent compared to last year . story continues below advertisementgovernments and trade experts seem to agree that maintaining the flow of commercial goods , including agricultural products grown and raised on both sides of the border , is critical to keeping grocery store shelves full . it ’ s also essential to manufacturing , including in the auto and pharmaceutical sectors . “ the economic damage from interrupting the flow of trucks would be both direct and indirect , ” wrote william anderson and marta leardi - anderson from the university of windsor ’ s cross border institute in an article recently published in the conversation . 2 : 01 coronavirus : new brunswick considering opening borders to neighbouring quebec communities coronavirus : new brunswick considering opening borders to neighbouring quebec communitiesin total , trucking and logistics employs about 650 , 000 canadians , or roughly 3 . 5 per cent of the country ’ s workforce , according to a recent report from trucking hr canada . trucking is also critical to canada ’ s food supply , especially fresh fruits and vegetables , said simon somogyi , a food business professor and supply chain expert at the university of guelph . story continues below advertisementannually , canada imports about 65 per cent of fruits and vegetables consumed . the overwhelming majority of this comes either directly from the u . s . , primarily california , or mexico on trucks that travel through the u . s . , somogyi said . during colder months — november to may — canadians grow almost none of the fresh fruits and vegetables they eat , he said . “ the ( border ) is a critical piece of infrastructure for the food security of canada , ” somogyi said . drivers taking extra precautionssteven enslow , a trucker from montreal , was in california in march when the canada - u . s . border shut down to all but essential travel . the information he received at that time was sporadic at best , he said , and he and many other truckers had no idea whether they ’ d be allowed back into canada . since then he ’ s continued driving back and forth between the two countries . he was in georgia the weekend its economy reopened , which he said was frightening because so few people were respecting physical distancing rules or wearing masks . story continues below advertisementat that point , he said , his thinking shifted from “ will i catch the virus ” to “ when will i actually catch it ? ” “ it ’ s not a matter of if , it ’ s about when , ” he said . 0 : 51 coronavirus outbreak : canada , u . s . extend border closure agreement until aug . 21 coronavirus outbreak : canada , u . s . extend border closure agreement until aug . 21enslow said he feels lucky that he hasn ’ t gotten sick so far , despite spending much of the past few months working in the u . s . he credits this to the fact that most facilities designed specifically for truckers are taking extra precautions . when dropping off shipments or going inside businesses , people are checking temperatures , maintaining distance and requiring masks , he said . enslow said he also eats most meals inside the cab of his truck , orders curbside pickup whenever possible and sanitizes everything he uses that other people may have touched . story continues below advertisement “ as far as going back across the border , i ’ m ok with it , some drivers aren ’ t . it ’ s really a matter of personal opinion , ” he said . trucking is a solitary businessthe canadian trucking alliance , an industry group that represents about 4 , 500 trucking companies , has created a set of best practices that drivers and owners across canada are using to keep workers safe . this includes requiring that all truckers have access to personal protective equipment , such as masks , gloves and sanitizers , taking temperature checks and observing for signs of illness , while maintaining physical distancing whenever possible at all stages of the delivery process . the organization also says truckers tend to self - isolate far more than workers in other areas of the economy , adding that it ’ s not unusual for drivers to complete long journeys while only coming into close physical contact with one or two people . global news requested an interview with the canadian trucking alliance but was told no one was available . in a written statement , the organization ’ s spokesperson said that covid - 19 has created challenges for all workers , including truckers , and that measures have been implemented to address them . 1 : 11 coronavirus : trudeau says ‘complex ’ situation in the u . s . means no firm timetable on border reopening coronavirus : trudeau says ‘complex ’ situation in the u . s . means no firm timetable on border reopening “ our industry has gone to great lengths in order to protect the public and industry workers while continuing to deliver essential products canadians need during these unprecedented times , ” said spokesperson marco beghetto . story continues below advertisementhowever , despite the added precautions , some drivers still feel the u . s . is unsafe and are doing whatever they can to avoid it . jason carpenter has been driving trucks for close to 30 years . over the past month he ’ s worked exclusively in canada , but this week he ’ s driving from southern ontario to iowa to deliver farm equipment . the thought of going back to the u . s . is worrisome , he said , especially given the recent spike in covid - 19 cases . “ it ’ s scary , ” he said . he also worries about what might happen when he re - enters canada , citing reports from early in the pandemic when truckers were denied access to basic services , including washrooms , food and showers . ultimately , carpenter said , he ’ s not in a position to turn down work in the u . s . , otherwise , he would . he trusts the company he works for has measures in place that will keep him safe — adding that he ’ ll do his best to keep away from everyone — but he knows there ’ s still a risk when crossing the border because of how widespread the novel coronavirus has become . “ you never know what ’ s going to happen , ” he said . “ i ’ m doing the job because i have to . ” story continues below advertisement
__label__no_relevant toronto immigration lawyer and immigrant defends don cherry ’ s comments guidy mamann , a toronto immigration lawyer who also immigrated to the country several years ago , defended don cherry ’ s comments sunday after the well - known sports personality faced controversy when he suggested new immigrants were not wearing poppies . 
__label__no_relevant 1 person in hospital after winnipeg shooting a shooting sent one person to hospital in critical condition tuesday morning . winnipeg police taped off a section of magnus avenue at main street after they were called to the scene around 5 : 45 a . m . and found an injured male . two vehicles , including a taxi , can be seen inside police tape on magnus avenue , and evidence markers dot the ground around some nearby debris . investigators are still at the scene . no other details are available at this time , a police spokesperson told cbc news . evidence markers dot the ground near some debris at the scene of the shooting that sent a man to hospital in critical condition . ( walther bernal / cbc ) more from cbc manitoba : 
__label__no_relevant third man charged with murder , attempted murder and kidnapping in 2019 rudy johnson bridge homicide – 100 mile house free press jordell sellars , 30 , has been charged in the death of branton regnerrcmp released an image of jordell sellars in december , 2019 in relation to firearms offences . ( rcmp photo ) rcmp have arrested a third man in connection with the august 2019 homicide of branton regner near williams lake . on thursday april 16 , north district major crime unit and the williams lake rcmp , with the assistance of merritt frontline rcmp and kamloops police dog service , arrested jordell sellars in relation to the death of regner , stated cpl . madonna saunderson , district advisory nco ( media relations ) for the north district in a news release . regner was reported missing following an incident on the rudy johnson bridge on friday , august 9 , 2019 . his body was found in the fraser river near the sheep creek bridge by a fisherman on tuesday , august 27 , 2019 . sellars , 30 , has been remanded into custody and is scheduled to make a court appearance on april 23 . sellars has been charged with one count of murder , one count of attempt murder and one count of kidnapping . two other men , jayson gilbert , 26 , and michael drynock , 23 , have also been charged with the same offences as a result of this investigation . read more : gilbert , drynock charged with first degree murder of branton regner “ the arrest and charges of a third individual in this community is a testament and dedication of multiple investigators from williams lake detachment and north district major crime unit . violent offenders and historical offences such as this homicide remain a strategic priority of the detachment , ” said insp jeff pelley oic williams lake detachment . “ it ’ s horrific a community and local family member was lost but those responsible will be held fully accountable through our judicial system . these offenders are currently in custody for these serious charges will make our community safer . ” read more : links probable between homicide , missing persons investigation in williams lakegilbert and drynock remain in custody . gilbert applied for bail in december but was denied . police have said they believe the incident at the rudy johnson bridge is also connected to the death of richard irvine james duncan jr , 43 , also known as ‘savage . ’ duncan was found shot in a driveway of a residence in the 1100 block of mackenzie avenue after police responded to a call of shots fired on tuesday , aug . 6 at about 12 : 45 a . m . he was transported to hospital , however , later died from his injuries . no one has been charged in his death . this latest arrest marks the fifth suspect charged with murder in the last year - and - a - half in the williams lake area ; the rudy johnson bridge / branton regner case as well as the death of jamie sellars baldwin at a residence on mountain house road on tuesday dec . 11 , 2018 at 9 : 35 p . m . daine victor stump , 21 , and wyatt lee boffa , 29 , are both facing first degree murder charges in connection with that case . read more : second man charged in connection to 2018 homicide near williams lakedo you have a comment about this story ? email : editor@wltribune . comlike us on facebook and follow us on twitter . rcmpwilliams lake
__label__no_relevant victoria single parent resource centre forced to flee collapsing building – victoria news 1up was operating out of a heritage building that is now condemnedbliss prema picks out a new dress for one of her daughters at the temporary site for the 1up victoria single parent resource centre . the original office was in a now - condemned building , forcing the organization to find space at the centennial united church . ( nicole crescenzi / news staff ) six years ago , bliss prema lived in a beautiful house in victoria ’ s affluent rocklands neighbourhood with her husband and two daughters . she would often donate old clothes and toys to the 1up victoria single parent resource centre , but never imagined that in a few years she would need those donations herself . after prema and her husband divorced , she suddenly found herself as a single mother struggling to get by . “ it ’ s been a full circle for me , ” prema said . “ i ’ ve had the amazing opportunity of going from a fully supported person in a marriage to all of a sudden being on my own and having to struggle and learn how to be independent with two children . ” when prema accessed 1up for the first time as a single parent , she felt immediate relief . “ when you ’ re facing something that ’ s so foreign , it ’ s all new territory . i ’ d never been a single parent before so it was so empowering and so impactful to have this whole network that ’ s there to support you , ” prema said . “ now it ’ s interesting just to come in and grab a pair of summer shoes for the girls and find a business dress for me for a meeting . on so many different fronts they have us covered . ” also read : support group helps victoria parents navigate issues with children1up is a charity organization that helps support 1 , 800 family members , averaging out to 250 families accessing services every month . the organization offers food , clothing , school supplies , christmas hampers , counselling services , mentorship programs , life skills classes and parenting education workshops as some of its services . it is run through fundraising efforts , as well as through grants and donations . for nearly three decades , 1up has worked out of its heritage building at 602 gorge rd . e . , but as of january the group had to flee the building after it was condemned . “ a report came back saying there were serious structural concerns , and that the building was certain to collapse , ” said marianne sorensen , executive director of 1up . “ so , we had to make a really quick decision that we couldn ’ t risk our staff , members and volunteers . ” also read : oak bay ’ s spandads help give new life to used bikeswithin a day , the group grabbed everything they could before locking up the building for good . the building needs significant repairs , sorensen said . interior and exterior cracks were caused by a shifting foundation , so the building will need to be lifted , a new foundation poured , beams and bricks replaced and seismic upgrades installed . “ it would be at least $1 million , ” sorensen said . “ as a designated heritage building , we can ’ t demolish it , nor can anyone who intends to buy it . ” 1up purchased the building in 1991 , and thanks to a generous donor never had to make mortgage payments on the building . the organization tried to sell the building in recent years , most recently listing it for $700 , 000 for 18 months with zero takers . 1up has since moved across the street , renting out the gym at the centennial united church at 612 david st . as a temporary site . while sorensen is grateful for the space , 1up now has limited hours and space to operate in . “ we ’ re not able to accept nearly the amount of community donations , ” sorensen said . “ other people use the facility , too , so each day we have to take everything out of storage , set it up and then pack it up again . ” 1up is looking at any other option available for a more permanent site , including advocating with the city of victoria to lift the heritage designation on the old building so that it can be demolished . in the meantime , renting out the church space has allowed the group to keep in touch and stay busy . one of the new opportunities the temporary space offers is a kitchen , allowing the group to organize community meals . prema hopes that wherever the centre ends up , that a kitchen might be included . “ as a single parent , night after night you ’ re making meals and then you can just come to this community , ” prema said . “ that way it ’ s easy to remember we ’ re all in the same boat , we ’ re all going through the same struggles . and all of a sudden it doesn ’ t feel so lonely anymore . ” nicole . crescenzi@vicnews . comsend a tweet : @nicolecrescenzilike us on facebookcharity
__label__relevant paid leave for victims of domestic violence will soon be law on p . e . i . islanders who need time off work to deal with issues related to domestic violence can receive paid leave starting next month . starting nov . 1 , employees can take up to three days paid , and seven days unpaid , as a result of changes to the employment standards act . women ' s advocates applaud the move . " the person who experiences violence doesn ' t have to use only their own resources , " said jane ledwell , executive director of the p . e . i . advisory council on the status of women . " they have support without wondering how it will affect employment . " victims as well as close family members may be entitled to the paid leave . it can be taken all at once or intermittently . the employee needs to have been on the job for at least three months . the changes are similar to employment standards coming into place across canada . but hurdles still remain , according to women ' s advocates . " the biggest challenge even with the leave in place is going to be disclosing that violence has occurred , " said ledwell . written evidence from a social worker or health professional may be required in some circumstances . under the new regulations , employers have the ability to require such documentation . ' the biggest challenge is going to be disclosing that violence has occurred , ' says jane ledwell , executive director of the p . e . i . advisory council on the status of women . ( isabella zavarise / cbc ) p . e . i . ' s legislation does not apply to workers who are employed under a collective agreement — a common situation in unionized workplaces . however , union contracts typically now include domestic violence leave , according to island labour leaders . they said the extension of paid leave to all workers is long overdue . " i think having this in place could possibly save lives , " said karen jackson , president of the prince edward island union of public sector employees . the province consulted with the public , advocacy groups and with employers . employers must provide the paid leave if the worker meets the requirements . " if they need to move , if they ' re in an emergency situation and need to move residence quickly , if they need to seek medical services or legal services , they can qualify , " said patricia mcphail , director of labour and industrial relations , with the department of economic growth . some workplaces already have domestic violence leave . the city of charlottetown provides its employees with up to three weeks paid leave to deal with issues related to domestic violence . more p . e . i . news
__label__no_relevant andrew scheer falls short — but vows conservatives will be ready next time conservative leader andrew scheer ran his party ' s federal election campaign as a referendum on the performance of justin trudeau and the liberals over the last four years . now the results are in : a minority government for trudeau , a slightly larger caucus for the conservatives — and new pressure on scheer ' s leadership . beyond a promise to voters to make life more affordable through tax cuts , scheer said canadians should back conservatives in this election because trudeau had lost the " moral authority to govern " after the snc - lavalin scandal and the brownface photos surfaced . a substantial number of canadians disagreed . while scheer did not pick up enough seats to form a government , he did hold trudeau to a minority . but more than that , the conservative party appears to have won the popular vote thanks in part to lopsided victories in the west . in his address to party supporters monday , scheer gave no indication that he would be resigning his position as leader . " while tonight ' s result isn ' t what we wanted , i ' m also incredibly proud , proud of our team and proud of the bigger and stronger conservative team that we ' ll send to ottawa , " scheer said . andrew scheer says the conservatives are the ' government in waiting ' conservative leader andrew scheer says he ' s looking forward to heading back to ottawa with a bigger conservative team while speaking to reporters in regina , sask . 1 : 29 " tonight , conservatives have put justin trudeau on notice and mr . trudeau , when your government falls , conservatives will be ready and we will win . " scheer failed to substantially bolster his party ' s standings in the house of commons . the conservatives return to parliament with roughly 20 more seats than former prime minister stephen harper won in 2015 . in once deep - blue ridings in places like atlantic canada and ontario , liberal candidates managed to fight off their conservative challengers . the party failed to make any gains in quebec . deputy party leader lisa raitt , a conservative stalwart and a red tory , went down to defeat in the suburban toronto riding of milton . conservative deputy leader lisa raitt loses in milton , ont . in her concession speech , ontario conservative candidate lisa raitt says it has been an honour to serve as the deputy leader of her party . 0 : 51the conservative election strategy — sticking to tried - and - true conservative policies like tax cuts while rejecting substantive climate action to motivate the dedicated tory base — failed to sway enough independent - minded voters in central and eastern canada . scheer was able to tap into the palpable anger in western canada — particularly in the prairies , where the liberal government has been accused of stifling the oil and gas sector with policies like the northern b . c . oil tanker ban and the controversial overhaul of the environmental assessment regime . conservative candidates toppled all liberal mps in alberta and saskatchewan , including long - time liberal mp and cabinet minister ralph goodale . in alberta , conservative candidates secured an eye - popping 70 per cent of the vote . in saskatchewan , tories swept all the seats with more than 67 per cent of the vote . but scheer ' s future as conservative leader is now in doubt . scheer said monday ' s result is just the " first step " and the popular vote success of the party in this election means that the conservatives are now the " government in waiting . " under the conservative party constitution , if the party fails to form government — and if the leader has not yet formally signalled an intention to resign — then delegates can vote at the next party convention to hold a leadership race . if more more than 50 per cent of the votes cast at the convention favour such an option , that would trigger a leadership race . of course , scheer might resign before that leadership review vote is even necessary . andrew scheer ' s full election night speechconservative leader andrew scheer speaks to supporters in regina , sask . scheer won his regina - qu ' appelle riding . 10 : 44while trudeau ' s campaign was beset by scandal , scheer also faced questions about his resume and his political positions . scheer appeared awkward when asked about social issues like gay marriage and abortion . there were also questions about his past as an insurance broker ( he was never actually licensed to sell insurance ) and his dual canada - u . s . citizenship . scheer was first elected in his adopted hometown of regina in 2004 , beating long - time ndp mp lorne nystrom . after years on the conservative backbench in opposition and then in government , scheer served as deputy speaker in the house of commons before taking the big chair himself after the 2011 election . conservative party members were forced to pick a new leader after their electoral thumping in 2015 . at the outset of that leadership race , scheer struggled to stand out in the crowded field of 17 candidates who were vying to replace stephen harper . scheer , while speaker of the house of commons , jokingly tries to fight with then - prime minister stephen harper and then - ndp leader jack layton as they escort him to the speaker ' s chair in june 2011 . ( adrian wyld / canadian press ) with media attention focused on higher - profile candidates like kellie leitch , kevin o ' leary and maxime bernier , scheer quietly assembled a significant amount of " second choice " support among members . he courted socially conservative voters — a not - insignificant portion of the conservative leadership voting base — but also more moderate elements of the party who feared bernier ' s strident libertarianism would be a turn - off for the general voting public . he narrowly beat bernier by less than two points on the 13th and final ballot . scheer acknowledged early on that his policy proposals were not all that different from those of his predecessor . he willingly embraced the " stephen harper with a smile " label , saying he would govern like harper but with a less stern image . when he assumed the helm of his party , the liberals were still flying high in the polls . scheer is congratulated by maxime bernier after being elected the new leader of the federal conservative party in 2017 . ( frank gunn / canadian press ) but scheer scored some wins as an opposition leader , like a come - from - behind victory in a quebec byelection . he capitalized on liberal scandals — like trudeau ' s much - maligned trip to india — and some ethical lapses , like trudeau ' s trip to a private island in the bahamas . with the snc - lavalin affair , scheer sought to paint trudeau as a man unfit to govern after inappropriately pressuring his justice minister . his efforts paid off in the early months of 2019 as liberal popular support numbers dipped significantly . scheer launched the election campaign with a promise to make life more affordable for canadians ( " it ' s time for you to get ahead " was the chosen slogan ) , by promising to revive harper - era policies that were dismantled by the liberals . scheer committed to a children ' s fitness and arts tax credit , a public transit tax credit , a new green home retrofit tax credit and a " universal tax cut " to slash income taxes for middle - income canadians . 
__label__no_relevant out of the shadows : how an alberta government minister is waging war on fgm send this page to someone via emailfilmmaker giselle portenier arrived in edmonton this week , stepped into a cab and struck up a conversation with the driver about an uncomfortable , still - taboo topic . “ he told me that every woman in his family , including his wife , has been through female genital mutilation . ” the world health organization estimates the procedure has been performed on some 200 million women and girls . now the alberta government is joining the fightportenier is in edmonton for a screening of her film in the name of your daughter which tells the stories of young girls fleeing female genital mutilation , also called “ the cut ” or female circumcision . and now the b . c . human rights journalist is combining forces with alberta ’ s minister for the status of women in a war against the practice . story continues below advertisement “ there ’ s so little information , but so many women have been impacted , ” says minister leela sharon aheer . “ every 11 seconds a girl somewhere in the world is mutilated , ” adds portenier . tweet thisshe cites several canadian women she has met who ’ ve suffered through it . “ it ’ s happening on every continent , except antarctica . ” in the shadows “ we just can ’ t speak about it in the shadows any more , ” says aheer . she wants to hear from victims , the medical and justice communities , and those potentially at risk . her goal is to gather more information and form a plan of attack . 3 : 48 in conversation with fgm activist nice nailantei leng ’ ete in conversation with fgm activist nice nailantei leng ’ eteread more : meet the 27 - year - old who saved 16 , 000 girls from genital mutilation “ girls are valuable . they are beautifully and perfectly born the way they are and should stay intact , ” says aheer in explaining the message she ’ s urging others to hear . story continues below advertisement “ any attempt to mutilate a child is an act against human rights . it is an act of abuse . ” tweet thisit ’ s tough to fight a practice that ’ s under - reported and often kept secret . aheer says parents and doctors sometimes collaborate to have the procedure performed , leaving young victims powerless to avoid it . the pair is calling for a national action plan and tougher federal legislation specific to fgm . read more : commentary : female genital mutilation is child abuse — and we ’ re not doing enough to stop it “ we perpetuate the idea that we protect women and girls , and yet at the federal level it ’ s only considered aggravated assault and not child abuse , ” says aheer . a global problemportenier points out fgm is not limited to a small number of countries or cultures . the edmonton cab driver she spoke to was a muslim man from ethiopia . the very next day , she heard a similar story from a new canadian , this one a christian . “ it happens across all communities , ” she says . what do these beautiful women have in common ? they ’ re all survivors of female genital mutilation #fgm & courageous human rights activists . i ’ m so honoured to be a part of the #endfgm community & salute campaigners worldwide during #16daysofactivism @mariyataher83 @severinalem pic . twitter . com / hatxxmabap — giselle portenier ( @giselleportenie ) november 26 , 2019story continues below advertisementaheer acknowledges imposing our collective values on other countries and cultures is complex , “ but in canada we have to draw some really firm lines in the sand as to what we consider child abuse to be . ” read more : swedish city advises girls facing genital mutilation threat to hide spoon in underwearthe united nations has called for zero tolerance for the practice . “ for far too long we ’ ve been so worried about the sensitivities of the adults , we have sacrificed the human rights of the girl , ” says portenier . “ they need our help . the children need our help . ” if you need help or resources around female genital mutilation , contact the child abuse hotline at 1800 - 387 - kids ( 5437 ) or alberta health link at 811 . 0 : 37 female genital mutilation practitioners are travelling to canada , border officers warned female genital mutilation practitioners are travelling to canada , border officers warned
__label__relevant female genital mutilation survivor in st . john ' s advocates for support , awareness thursday is international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation , and while the practice is mostly carried out in parts of africa , the middle east and asia , one survivor in st . john ' s says there are others like her in newfoundland and labrador and the province should prepare for more to come . maryam sheikh abdikadir of kenya was cut when she was six years old . she was subjected to arguably the most cruel and invasive form of female genital mutilation . " to date , if i get the smell of blood , my mind actually goes to that day , " she said , recalling screams of the other girls who went through the procedure ahead of her . fgm , which serves no medical purpose and is considered a human rights violation , is generally carried out on children between infancy and age 15 , according to the world health organization . as newfoundland and labrador welcomes more immigrants from places where the practice takes place , abdikadir said , the province — its people and physicians — should learn about mutilation . " can you imagine a young girl who was cut when she was six years old and she doesn ' t know and she comes to the schools and discovers she is actually a survivor when she ' s , let ' s say , in middle school or high school ? " abdikadir said . " how are we prepared to support that girl when she starts thinking there ' s something wrong with her or all this and that ? " girls at riskabdikadir , who now resides in st . john ' s , is part of the end fgm canada network — a group of individuals and organizations committed to raising awareness about the practice and its relevance in this country . organizers want to see a national action plan to support survivors and protect girls at risk in canada . they also want the federal government to commit more international development aid to ending the practice abroad . if we don ' t talk about it , there will be all the silence and people can do all sorts of things when they ' re silent . - maryam sheikh abdikadir " already we are hearing of anecdotal stories , not founded , of vacation cutting . girls taken away , out of canada , back home to be cut and then they are brought back , " abdikadir said . " is that true ? and if that were happening … that ' s something that should make people talk about it . " according to the world health organization , more than 200 million girls and women alive today have had their genitals mutilated . ' the control of women ' " the main reason why it is done … is control of women , " abdikadir said . the end fgm canada network wants the federal government to get more involved with ending female genital mutilation worldwide and supporting survivors and girls at risk in canada . ( end fgm canada network ) " but of course it is garnished with a lot of other results . it ' s religious , it is for chastity , it is for virginity , it makes , you know , the organ beautiful — there are all these unfounded narratives holding it in place but the main result is the control of women . " the procedure can involve removing the clitoris , labia minora or both . in some cases , the labia minora or labia majora are cut , repositioned and sometimes stitched to seal the area . according to the world health organization , fgm can cause severe bleeding , problems urinating , cysts , infections , complications in childbirth and increased risk of newborn deaths . " if we don ' t talk about it , there will be all the silence and people can do all sorts of things when they ' re silent , " abdikadir said . " we need to open up the conversation and begin discussing it and just make people aware that there are survivors and there are girls who could be at risk . " read more from cbc newfoundland and labrador
__label__no_relevant alberta businesswoman named lieutenant - governor , first muslim in role in canada ottawa — prime minister justin trudeau has named business owner and philanthropist salma lakhani as alberta ' s new lieutenant - governor . when she formally takes over the role , lakhani will become canada ' s first muslim lieutenant - governor . article continues belowshe replaces lois mitchell as the queen ' s representative in the province . lakhani has been long recognized for her work and philanthropy in a range of fields , including health care and human rights . she has mentored young students with english as a second language and helped steer a committee dedicated to helping vulnerable women gain access to education . lakhani was born in uganda and has an honours degree in clinical biochemistry from the university of manchester . she has been in edmonton for more than 40 years , owning and operating an early childhood education centre . in 2005 , she was awarded the alberta centennial medal for outstanding achievements in the province . and in 2012 , she was awarded the queen elizabeth diamond jubilee medal honouring service to canada . lieutenant - governors , the highest - ranking officers in each province , carry out a variety of official duties including swearing in the premier and cabinet , opening each session of the legislative assembly and signing bills into laws . " ms . lakhani is devoted to supporting people in her community , from new immigrants and young people , to women and families , " trudeau said in a news release tuesday . " as lieutenant governor of alberta , i know she will serve the people of her province and our country well , and continue to be a source of inspiration for all canadians . " this report by the canadian press was first published june 30 , 2020
__label__no_relevant camera traps and customary wisdom help redefine bear conservation camera traps set up around a canadian artic research camp led to the first published documentation of all three north american bear species in the same locations . although more than 90 percent of the 401 bear visits recorded by the cameras were of polar bears , the presence of grizzlies , which have been seen as threatening polar bears , has caused debate among scientists , conservation managers and local communities . the camera data did not document interactions among polar , grizzly and black bears , though the researchers say the spatial overlap of the species suggests potential for interspecies interactions to occur , raising questions about how they might affect bear conservation efforts in the future . some conservation managers , aware that their values align with those of the region ’ s indigenous communities , are increasingly marrying traditional wisdom to scientific methods to inform their work . in 1998 , douglas clark witnessed manitoba ’ s second recorded grizzly bear ( ursus arctos horribilis ) sighting of the century . then a warden in canada ’ s wapusk national park , he remembers swooping down near the shores of hudson bay in a bell 212 helicopter to confirm the distinctive , muscular hump of a lone grizzly running along a gravel beach ridge . grizzlies had been considered extirpated in this sliver of the province since the late 1800s , and wapusk — literally meaning “ white bear ” in cree — was a land ruled by the polar bear ( ursus maritimus ) , an apex predator that was protected at all costs . “ get down there with a trap and a rifle and get rid of that thing ! ” he recalls a senior park manager telling him . grizzly sightings on this polar bear turf by researchers and locals increased over the next two decades . the lethal control approach has been touted by some conservation communities , with fears that grizzly bear range expansion would threaten polar bear populations . now , with recently captured camera trap footage showing grizzlies , polar bears and black bears ( ursus americanus ) roaming the park in close proximity , clark said he suspected his latest research may shift the conservation status quo in canada ’ s ever - changing north . “ many conservationists don ’ t look positively on the idea of environmental changes , especially when it affects high - profile species , like the polar bear , ” clark told mongabay . “ grizzlies are the new kids on the block … so , it poses the question , is this change good or bad ? and are we valuing polar bears more than grizzlies ? ” a study led by clark , published in arctic science , is the result of a chance encounter in 2011 , when he returned to wapusk as a conservation scientist with the university of saskatchewan . rigging a set of reconyx heat - and motion - activated camera traps to the outposts of his research camp , clark aimed to gather data for his studies on human - polar bear interactions . however , one year in , while sifting through images triggered by park staff on snowmobiles , wandering birds and the occasional polar bear , he noticed an unexpected face wander across the frame : the first on - camera documentation of a grizzly in northern manitoba . cameras corroborate species overlapshortly afterward , his team ’ s camera traps were picking up visits from black bears as well . although neither species was entirely new to the area , these snapshots were the first tangible evidence that polar bears weren ’ t the only carnivores to roam these lands , or perhaps , to even call them home . “ it is and it isn ’ t surprising … trappers have known about this for years , ” clark said . “ but having these cameras out over time , we were able to show that it was more than one bear of all of the species and that it ’ s repeated . it ’ s not just one random bear wandering through . ” set at 85 centimeters ( 2 . 8 feet ) high , the cameras could not distinguish individual bears but used an infrared flash to count bear visits to a given camera by an individual or family of bears within a one - hour period . in six years of recording , the cameras have successfully captured 401 polar , grizzly and black bear visits at three camps within the park . more than 90 percent of these visits were by polar bears . the trap setup consists of four cameras facing each of the cardinal directions around the perimeter of each camp , and one additional camera for redundancy . the team lucked into a trap arrangement — in terms of height , location and distance apart — that could adequately capture the trio of species , and so its positioning has remained essentially untouched to this day . although no interspecies interactions have emerged , one set of photos captured a polar bear and a black bear passing by the same camera some three hours apart from one another . it ’ s likely , clark says , that this narrow time frame indicates these bears were aware of each other and could quite possibly be adapting to the other ’ s presence . other footage has prompted the team to suspect that some grizzly bears are even denning in the area and not just passing through . “ suddenly , this takes us into the terrain of values , ” clark said , “ and it forces us to really take a hard look at bear and park conservation in an area where a bunch of ecosystems converge , and in a time where all of these ecosystems are changing very rapidly as a result of climate change . ” combining cameras and culturehow best to approach this influx of non - native predators is a question that remains unanswered . the common approach to conservation , within national parks especially , is to preserve an environment in its known state . but as much of canada ’ s subarctic regions rapidly thaw and evolve , this approach becomes less realistic and more difficult to achieve . to ensure a thoughtful approach , clark says , undoubtedly involves the local people , who harbor a deep knowledge of the land and the ecological changes it ’ s undergone . however , many residents of northern manitoba are at odds with the initiatives of polar bear conservationists and researchers , as local perspectives have historically been cast aside or , in some cases , ignored entirely . for example , researchers have fitted bears with tracking tags to understand their movements , but many communities consider the tags an interference with local hunting traditions and insulting to the bears who , in some cultural views , are considered to be non - human persons . “ the politics of polar bear conservation has been going bad for about 14 years . conservation - wise , policy - wise , wildlife management - wise , it ’ s a train wreck , ” clark said . northern canada has been the epicenter of debates surrounding these matters , often between researchers and media , who put polar bears on an ecological pedestal , and indigenous peoples for whom polar bears are a primary resource . chris darimont is an interdisciplinary conservation scientist with the university of victoria and the raincoast conservation foundation who has conducted much of his research in partnership with indigenous governments along canada ’ s west coast . darimont promotes the fusion of scientific methods with traditional wisdom and management strategies . “ management intervention that isn ’ t carefully considered has a track record of making things worse , ” darimont told mongabay . indigenous communities , he said , had managed natural resources for thousands of years in a way that was inherently sustainable and woven into their culture . government agencies , lacking that kind of relationship and working with limited knowledge , are “ more likely to commodify resources , ” darimont said . generally , in darimont ’ s experience , indigenous governments on the west coast have values that align with those of area conservationists . “ we find that [indigenous knowledge and science] are frequently complementary . they often tell the same story , perhaps in slightly different ways , ” he said . “ but indigenous knowledge might , for example , provide things that science cannot , and vice versa . ” a study co - authored by darimont and fellow researchers in 2014 successfully combined these two schools of knowledge . noticing an increase in grizzly bear sightings throughout the archipelago off british columbia , his team deployed camera traps and non - invasive hair - snagging sites to track bear movements and genetics . “ we combined our photographs and genetic detections with interview data from elderly knowledge holders in two [first nations] communities on the coast , ” darimont said . “ what that did is give us data that our western science data could never do , and that is , go back in time . what we couldn ’ t do is put remote cameras on these islands 60 years ago , so each knowledge source provided something the other knowledge source couldn ’ t … it was a pretty powerful story . ” clark , too , said he hoped to further marry camera trap data collection with the expertise of local people in northern communities . “ you can combine the robustness of the cameras with the ingenuity and knowledge that the local people have about the land that they live on , ” he said . “ this also gives them a way to gain a voice and some real traction in these debates about bear conservation that really do affect them a great deal . ” in his next phase of bear conservation research , clark plans to arm communities in northern manitoba and nunavut with camera traps of their own . his off - the - shelf reconyx suite has provided a reliable view of the changing landscape . so far , however , he ’ s been able to capture only snapshots within the cameras ’ 25 - meter ( 82 - foot ) sensor range , and his curiosity of what lies beyond camp perimeters has prompted him to continue documenting the tale of the three bears in wapusk national park . clark said he thinks the information gained in wapusk can help the conservation community around the world grapple with parallel situations . “ preserving a steady - state environment in the subarctic on the coast of hudson bay , or probably pretty much anywhere , is no longer an option , ” he said . “ these doctrines and these assumptions in orthodox conservation thinking are really powerful , very deep - seated and hard to dislodge . yet , the world is now forcing us dislodge them if we ’ re going to be able to do anything effective on the conservation front , now and in the future . ” citationclark , d . a . , brook , r . , oliphant - reskanski , c . , laforge , m . p . , olson , k . , rivet , d . ( 2018 ) . novel range overlap of three ursids in the canadian subarctic . arctic science , doi : 10 . 1139 / as - 2018 - 0013 . banner image of a curious polar bear in wapusk national park in northern canada courtesy of the university of saskatchewan . feedback : use this form to send a message to the editor of this post . if you want to post a public comment , you can do that at the bottom of the page . 
__label__no_relevant surgeon fired for ' sharing photos of patients ' genitals on instagram ' dr christopher john salgado ( pictured ) , has been fired for allegedly sharing photos on instagram that showed patients ' genitalia after gender reassignment surgerya university of miami health system plastic surgeon , who appeared on transgender teen jazz jennings ' reality show , has been fired for allegedly sharing graphic photos on instagram that showed patients ' genitalia after they had undergone gender reassignment surgery . dr christopher john salgado was recently let go as the section chief of uhealth ' s lgbtq center for wellness , gender and sexual health . according to a petition , salgado , 50 , shared photos on the instagram account @sexsurgeon that violated patient privacy policies and that contained ' racist , transphobic , homophobic comments and hashtags ' . the petition , which was launched by transgender advocates , called for the american college of surgeons to immediately address salgado ' s ' public vulgarity , lack of professionalism , and questionable ethics around patient privacy ' . it ' s believed the posts were shared beginning in october 2018 , but the account has been taken down . however , one photo seen by dailymail . com showed a penis that had been shaped into a heart . that photo was shared as recently as valentine ' s day , and had the caption : ' there are many ways to show your love . ' according to a petition , salgado , 50 , shared photos ( above ) on the instagram account @sexsurgeonthe first photo showed a recently removed penis that had been shaped into a heart with the caption : ' there are many ways to show your love ' ' the ct scan on the left shows a very large dildo of a transman that inadvertently released into this person ' s butt / rectum requiring surgical removal , ' reads the caption of another photothis photo showed the ' testicular implants in transman after phalloplasty ' this photo shows a team of doctors holding a ' radial forearm phalloplasty of 10 inches ' it ' s believed the posts were shared beginning in october 2018 , but the account has been taken downit ' s believed the photo was a recently removed penis from a patient who had just undergone gender reassignment surgery . other photos showed male and female genitalia in various stages of surgery . one photo showed a ct scan of a dildo that had become stuck in a person ' s rectum . it ' s caption said that the dildo was from a ' transman that inadvertently released into this person ' s butt / rectum requiring surgical removal ' . ' this mishap during anal intercourse could have been avoided if the transman had a real phalloplasty , ' the caption continued . some of the hashtags included ' #megacock and #analfun ' . a dailymail . com request for comment to the university of miami health system was not immediately returned . salgado ' s information and image has been removed from the uhealth website , but he was previously listed as the co - director of the university of miami hernia center and section chief plastic surgery , university of miami hospital . salgado ( pictured ) , who has never been disciplined by the florida department of health , also met with transgender teen and reality star , jazz jennings , for a gender reassignment consultationhe appeared on one episode of her show , i am jazz , where he talked about his 16 years of experience in the field . jazz ( right ) is seen speaking to salgado on her showsalgado ended up not doing jennings ' ( left ) surgery ; dr jess ting , who is based in new york city , did the operation insteadsalgado , whose schedule is usually booked for months at a time , hasn ' t commented on the claims against him . however , sources have claimed that his instagram account had been hacked . salgado , who has never been disciplined by the florida department of health , also met with jennings for a gender reassignment consultation . he appeared on one episode of her show , i am jazz , where he talked about his 16 years of experience in the field . salgado ended up not doing her surgery ; dr jess ting , who is based in new york city , did the operation instead . 
__label__no_relevant canada ’ s indigenous child - suicide crisis is being mirrored on reserves in brazil para ler esta reportagem em português , clique aquiin guarani , they are called mokoi and gwyra . you can think of them like two small birds that fly to join you at the moment of birth and travel on your shoulder all your life . they are the guardians of your ayvu , your animating force , your soul . if you grow old , and your body wears out , then the birds depart for their natural home in the cosmos . that ' s a good death . but the birds can also be frightened off your shoulder , long before your body wears out . they can be dislodged by harsh words , or by a shocking sight – your lover encircled in someone else ' s arms , for example . the birds may settle and return to you – but they may not . that is when trouble begins : the most evil spirits , the angue , that are around us and in us , can take over then . story continues below advertisementthe angue can lead you to do all manner of bad things . they may even give you the idea to pick up a rope , toss it over the branch of a tree , pull it tight around your own neck , and jump . jejuvy , in guarani : it is usually translated as suicide in english , but that ' s a limited word – the clear implication is that the angue suffocated you , after giving you a wish to die . and then the spirits are loose , and if no one is on hand to take steps to stop them , they can fan out to cause new suffering – including jejuvy in many others . once the hangings have started , it can be a very long time before they stop . jejuvy took hold in december , 2015 , in sassoró , an indigenous reserve in central brazil that is home to 3 , 800 people . the first to die was junior silveira , who was 20 . he hanged himself from a large tree in a clearing between the houses . his family found him near dusk , and the chief , paulo fiel , called the police – but they are never quick to answer calls from the reserve , and it wasn ' t until the next day that mr . fiel was given permission to cut his body down . " by then , everyone had seen , even the little ones , " said junior ' s mother , maria benites . years ago , a child would never have been permitted to see a victim of jejuvy . these days , you can hardly prevent it . after junior , the deaths came swiftly , a 15 - year - old boy , a 14 - year - old girl . until the last to die : junior ' s brother , gilmar , who strangled himself with a belt on a post inside the family ' s rough board house in october . " they were not sad boys – they were normal , " ms . benites told me , her voice flat . " they liked school . they played football . they went to dances . they were always together . " something happened to them . " story continues below advertisementmaria benites looks at a photo of one of the two sons she lost to suicide over the past 15 months at her home on the reserve in sassoró . parallels to a canadian crisisthere is a suicide crisis among brazil ' s indigenous people , who take their own lives at an average rate 22 times that of non - indigenous brazilians . among the non - indigenous brazilian population , it is men over 60 who are most likely to kill themselves ( a statistic that is in line with most western countries ) ; on brazilian reserves , it is almost entirely adolescents who take their own lives . more boys kill themselves than girls , but the rate of suicide by girls is growing more quickly . the overall indigenous suicide rate is higher than the national one across the country , but it is wildly higher in a handful of places . the situation has many parallels with the phenomenon of indigenous suicide in canada , with one conspicuous difference : in canada , it is called a " crisis . " prime minister justin trudeau has pledged urgent action on indigenous suicide , and cabinet ministers have promised a federal intervention ( although indigenous leaders say both a plan and resources are still starkly lacking ) . in brazil , however , there is no talk of a crisis . in 2015 the federal government announced a prevention plan for what it calls the worst - affected reserves ( pledging to cut suicide by 10 per cent ) but it will not make public the budget or where that plan is supposedly being implemented . this belated and haphazard response reflects , in part , the fact that the country is mired in economic and political turmoil that has pulled away resources and attention from most social problems . but even at the best of times , brazil ' s 900 , 000 indigenous people are profoundly marginalized , the poorest citizens , little remembered , less served . no more than a dozen people in brazil , a country of 210 million , are researching the possible causes of the astronomical rates of indigenous suicide . community - level resources are pitifully scarce : for the 70 , 000 indigenous people in the state of mato grosso do sul , where sassoró is located , there are 13 psychologists , none with more than an undergraduate degree . it is difficult to determine precisely when this problem began , because data are predictably scarce : a federal indigenous health service has kept statistics only since the mid - 1990s . but suicides – occurring in such large numbers , not just one or two in a generation – are by all accounts a recent phenomenon . most people the age of ms . benites , who is 52 , say it never happened when she was young . the phenomenon first drew attention in brazil with a spate of suicides among her people , the guarani - kaiowa , in 1986 , when the brazilian indigenous affairs agency noticed a spike – from about five a year to 40 . statistics collected since 1996 show an average of 46 a year – a rate that is 21 times greater than the national one . many of those who work in the field say this is probably a sharp underestimation , since indigenous deaths are almost never subjected to a coroner ' s analysis , and are often simply not recorded at all . são gabriel da cachoeira suicide hot spots boa vista state of roraima tabatinga state of amazonas brazil state of mato grosso do sul bolivia dourados amambai sassoró traditional guarani - kaiowa territory argentina uruguay the globe and mail , source : indigenous peoples rights ( cti ) and instituto socioambiental ( isa ) suicide hot spots boa vista são gabriel da cachoeira state of roraima tabatinga state of amazonas brazil state of mato grosso do sul peru bolivia dourados amambai sassoró traditional guarani - kaiowa territory argentina uruguay the globe and mail , source : indigenous peoples rights ( cti ) and instituto socioambiental ( isa ) suicide hot spots boa vista são gabriel da cachoeira state of roraima tabatinga state of amazonas brazil state of mato grosso do sul peru bolivia dourados amambai sassoró traditional guarani - kaiowa territory argentina uruguay the globe and mail , source : indigenous peoples rights ( cti ) and instituto socioambiental ( isa ) among the suspects : chronic disease , drug abuseas a series of suicides by young girls in northern saskatchewan made news in canada in recent months , i went to sassoró , and to reserves scattered through guarani - kaiowa territory , to try to understand what is happening here , and what , if anything , is being done in response . i talked to the psychologist whose catchment area includes the benites family ; to the regional health authority ; to traditional healers and to anthropologists ; to parents and siblings of the dead . story continues below advertisementwhen i asked people why they thought the young guarani - kaiowa are killing themselves , they told me about lost land and lost rituals , and the lure of the city and fancy sneakers and cellphones . about chronic disease and near - universal unemployment . about alcohol and drug abuse , and a generation of children whose parents feel they cannot control them . ( and a generation of children who feel their parents should not try to control them . ) i heard about the nature of the kaiowa , some of whom described their people to me as closed , reserved , disinclined to share emotion but prone to sticking fiercely to an idea once it has entered their minds . and i heard about the mokoi and gwyra , the birds of protection that can be startled away . that explanation , in the end , made as much sense as any of the others . brazil has 900 , 000 indigenous people , and 480 " demarcated territories " encompassing just over a million square kilometres , 12 per cent of the country ' s land – land set aside for indigenous people to live on . ( indians , as they are almost universally known here , have no ownership rights , or control of minerals or anything else beneath the soil . ) some 400 , 000 of those indigenous people live away from those demarcated territories , in rural areas or in cities . the indigenous people of the amazon rain forest , with their bowl haircuts and yellow feather headdresses that are a national geographic staple , are the archetypical brazilian indian . and 98 per cent of the demarcated indigenous land is in the amazon . but the second - largest indigenous population in the country is here in mato grosso do sul , a state on the western flank of brazil that shares a border with paraguay and bolivia . there are eight first nations in the state – " ethnicities , " they are called in brazil ; the largest , by far , is the guarani - kaiowa , who make up two - thirds of the indigenous population and whose traditional territory is today fractured between the three countries . on the brazilian side of the border , the guarani - kaiowa have nine reserves in the south of mato grosso do sul . this is breadbasket territory , the heart of brazil ' s thriving industrial agriculture business . the land is a vast sea of green fields of soy , spiky sugar cane , and darker green corn , owned by a handful of giant firms , many of them multinationals . while the rest of brazil staggers under the weight of a stalled economy , plenty of money is still being made here : the asian market ' s hunger for brazilian soy , and for beef fed on soy , has not dimmed . once in a long while the farmland is interrupted by a town , built around a plaza , with a handful of clothing stores and gift shops , a couple of bakeries , and lines of big trucks idling at the one traffic light . you can drive for 15 or 20 minutes at a stretch and pass only fields that are pasture for white brahman cows . after a while , you realize that far more land here has been given to cows than to indigenous humans . the reserves are unmarked ; you have to know what you are looking for to find them , down long , rutted , red dirt roads . eventually there are houses in among the scrubby bush – the best ones a couple of low rooms with plaster over mud brick ; the poorest , such as that of ms . benites , just tarp pulled over sticks . each reserve has a school , where all classes except guarani language are taught in portuguese . the schools are chronically short of teachers and the most basic quality control . just 5 , 400 indigenous people in the state have made it as far as the first year of high school . there is usually a small health post on each reserve , where for a few hours each day an " indigenous health agent " vaccinates babies and doles out tuberculosis medication . there are plenty of trees between the houses , and a sense of spaciousness ; there is also a total absence of any kind of economic activity . the teacher and the health agent are the only people on most reserves with paid employment . the only jobs to be had are day labour on the farms , a few months a year during harvest – but farmers don ' t like to hire " índios . " sometimes women get jobs washing clothes or floors for white people in the town – but it ' s far , and the work pays only about $20 a day . brazil ' s indigenous people had their first interactions with european colonizers in 1500 , along the atlantic coast . so , some of them have more than 500 years ' experience dealing with the mundo branco , the white world . but colonialism came much later to the deep interior of the country . the first plantation land grants in mato grosso ( " thick forest " in portuguese ) were doled out to white settlers in the 1800s , but a major effort to control the movements of the indigenous people began only in 1915 . for decades , most of the guarani - kaiowa managed to stay away from the reserves , and kept to the forests . but by the 1970s , the last swaths of forest were being cut down for cattle ranches and maté plantations , and the government drove the guarani - kaiowa off their land and into small reserves . the pain of the displacement was then compounded : before they were moved , the indigenous occupants were forced to act as slave labour , clearing the land for the new farms , and building the roads that would serve them ; some were obliged to continue for generations as unpaid farm workers . the relocation was , by all accounts , a catastrophe for the guarani - kaiowa . they were a semi - nomadic people used to ranging over large distances , suddenly denied access to their traditional means of supporting themselves . the forests were razed , the wild animals they hunted disappeared , and the water sources were drained to irrigate plantations . the relocations upended the guarani - kaiowa in another , terrible way : particular places are essential for the practice of their rituals for planting , for hunting , for marriages and treating illness . a family ' s tekoha , its original and sacred land , is the source of teko pora – words that mean , essentially , to be alive and well . when they were " interned " – that is the word people usually use to describe the dislocation – everything began to fall apart . left : youth in the village of limão verde on the amambai indigenous reserve pay desultory attention to a cultural presentation intended to build self - esteem . right : amambai rsidents attend a community meeting organized by sesai , brazil ’ s indigenous health agency . the agency has launched a new initiative to engage community elders and service providers such as police officers and pastors in efforts to lower the rate at which guarani - kaiowa people , particularly teens , take their own lives . ' lots of things now are out of control ' " the deaths , the murders , the suicides – they have to do with how we live now , " izaaque joão , who lectures on guarani - kaiowa religion in a local college program for indigenous teachers , explained to me . " when people are mentally and physically well , it ' s fine , but when we ' re not , the spirit can get to us , because we ' re not protected . a way exists to protect the group , but what happens now is that shamans are not doing the rituals to protect the people – they have inadequate space to do it . to do it you need your proper place . it ' s a sacred thing that can ' t be sung anywhere . " we were sitting in front of his mud - brick house on a reserve on the outskirts of dourados , a city of 215 , 000 people that is the largest in the region . mr . joão gestured briefly with his chin , taking in the jumble of houses down the road and the highway behind us that the government had recently carved through the centre of the reserve . " this is not a sacred place – it ' s not purified . you can ' t do those rituals here . " a few days after i met mr . joão , i went to see a shaman . i drove four hours along that highway , past soy fields that stretched to the horizon , to the guarani - kaiowa reserve at amambai . it ' s a languidly bustling , cheerful community , with a well - built school and playing fields for kids . the town of amambai is about 20 minutes up the road , so a few people go there for work . but the darker side of life here is also apparent : in the middle of the day , you come across women so high on something they can barely walk , leading a pack of filthy half - dressed children down the centre of the road . amambai has been notorious in recent years as the community with the highest suicide rate in brazil , a grim title it lost this year to sassoró . early in the morning , i found ilma gomes , 58 , at home , cooking something in a huge , soot - stained pot over a wood fire in a lean - to . dried gourds doubled as dishes , animal skulls were stashed in the rafters , and mysterious leather bags of things hung on the stick walls ; she was playing guarani ritual music off a thumb drive in a laptop . she wore capri pants and a chiffon shirt ; her silver hair was pulled back in an elegant knot . ilma gomes is a guarani - kaiowa shaman who lives on the reserve in amambai . after 17 people , mostly teenagers , took their own lives in the community in 2015 , she and other traditional healers got together to perform rituals to strengthen the spiritual forces they said could protect the children . she echoed what mr . joão had told me : few people do the rituals any more . there are many rituals a kaiowa must do each day , like taking herbal remedies , to keep the angue away . there are the steps a parent can take if they fear their child is menaced . there is a protective leaf they must use to wash their hair . prayers they must say , to keep safe . but they don ' t . " lots of things now are out of control , " she said , popping up and down from the bench where we sat , to stir the smoking pot . she described how all the youth on the reserve walk around with headphones on , looking at cellphones . " there is a voice speaking right into their heads and they don ' t control what goes in their heads – this takes children into despair , it amplifies sadness , " she said , in guarani . " they fall in love secretly and sometimes start drinking – without the control of the rituals they should be doing . " sometimes mothers come and ask for her help with their children , ms . gomes told me . " when the parent sees they are not well , it is the moment to intervene , " she said . " if no one notices , it ' s a problem . " often , these days , she said , parents are not watching . left : a pickup soccer game on the reserve in amambai . this reserve has over the past 20 years had one of the highest suicide rates in the world . right : nelza gonçalves attends the suicide prevention meeting in amambai organized by sesai . the agency will not make public where it is targeting or what the program budget is . left : a family walks a path in amambai in southwestern brazil . right : ellen rodrigues sarmori holds her sleeping sister wendy on the reserve in amambai . their brother allen , 16 , was found hanging in a tree a year ago . neighbours say he was frustrated his parents could not afford to buy him nice sneakers or a fancy cellphone . his mother believes jealous forces , human or otherwise , took his life . high rates of violence , and communities disrupteda few days before i met ms . gomes , on my way to guarani - kaiowa land , i went through the state capital , campo grande , and stopped in at the pristine blond - wood office of the state ' s indigenous health service . there , i heard some of the data that lies behind the kind of fractured families ms . gomes would tell me about . i met with edemilson canale , who is in charge of the service , and fabiane vick , a psychologist who heads up the mental - health initiative . mr . canale , a public - health expert , is terena , one of the first nations native to the region , while ms . vick is white , and did her master ' s thesis on guarani - kaiowa suicide . they talked about the high rates of violence in guarani - kaiowa reserves , of endemic domestic abuse , child sexual abuse , and incidents of assault ; and about alcohol and drug abuse , which they said was widespread , even among children . mr . canale said that his chief preoccupation is child mortality – the indigenous rate in the state is more than double the figure for brazil as a whole – and both of them talked about how difficult it is to try to tackle issues related to mental health when many of the people they try to serve are malnourished and living in decrepit homes , problems outside their ostensible mandate . in addition to the internal violence , there is external conflict , mr . canale explained : since the 1980s , groups of guarani - kaiowa have been attempting to reclaim land they say is theirs , pitting them against agribusiness . the violence has intensified as the farms have expanded . two chiefs were murdered in the past six years , and there were shootings , kidnappings and disappearances , leading to a constant sense of menace around indigenous communities . mr . joão told me about this , too : attackers are rarely charged with assaults on índios , he said , because the state and federal congress representatives are closely tied to agribusiness . state and federal military police often carry out evictions of guarani - kaiowa squatting on land they seek to reclaim ; farmers use guards ( with military - grade weaponry ) from private security firms staffed mainly by ex - police . evangelical churches have had a strong and constantly expanding presence on indigenous reserves in the past 15 years , and , mr . canale said , forcefully discourage their followers from consulting traditional leaders or healers . the result has been disruption of communities and families . izaaque joão , the teacher of guarani - kaiowa spirituality , talked about that , too . guarani - kaiowa youth grow up with access only to poor education , with no recreational option beyond drinking – which they often start to do before they are 10 – or smoking the abundant marijuana that comes over the border from paraguay , or crack , the health workers said ; they have virtually no career prospects , and yet plenty of exposure to another , parallel life that they see on tv , and in the towns . ms . vick said that in interviews with families of teens who have killed themselves , parents say their children " see everything , the televisions , the cellphones , the nice clothes , they see it and they want it but they live in another world . " studies of indigenous youth in other countries have demonstrated the corrosive effect of " increasing relative disadvantage . " although brazil is currently facing a crisis of unemployment and inflation , real standards of living for most people here improved dramatically in the past 15 years . the poorest brazilians – with the exception of indigenous people – benefited most ; fully 35 million moved out of poverty altogether . almost none of that change reached the reserves . i visited 10 families on reserves in southern mato grosso do sul who lost at least one member to suicide in the preceding year , and the stories the grieving parents told me had many common elements : he fought with his girlfriend . he was angry because i said he could not live with the girl he liked . my daughter was drinking . my son wanted new runners , and i said i could not buy them . " they ' re banal things , " paulo fiel , the elected leader in sassoró , told me . but the conflict could be enough to startle off the mokoi and gwyra , he said , and leave a soul vulnerable . ms . vick , the head of the mental - health team , said their epidemiological tracking shows that suicide comes in waves , something they are at a loss to explain . mr . izaaque , however , said it makes perfect sense : with no rituals to control the spirits that break loose in jejuvy , and no rituals of protection , the evil spirits wreak havoc on one person , and then the next . in photos : guarani - kaiowa country up closecattle ranching and industrial soy farming have taken over most of the land that was once guarani - kaiowa territory . indigenous people have many land claims in the area registered with the federal government , but these take decades to be adjudicated . residents of the guarani - kaiowa reserve at amambai blocked a nearby highway in november to protest the fact that half the community had been without running water for nearly two months after a pump broke down . protest leaders said that only blocking the highway brings attention from the indigenous affairs organization that manages utilities and other services for the reserve . police separated the protesters from angry white farmers wanting to use the road to get to town . children play in a schoolyard in amambai . guarani - kaiowa youth grow up with access only to poor education . araci samor of amambai lost her husband nivaldo chara martin , 42 , and son michel , 15 , to suicide . a soy field next to the village of jiguarapiru . traditional guarani - kwaiowa land is today the heart of brazil ’ s agro - industry , a booming sector in an otherwise moribund economy . the highly mechanized farms employ few workers , and people on the reserve say white bosses don ’ t like to hire ‘ indios . ’ . suicide ' hot spots , ' but few clear - cut explanationsthe theory that roots the clusters of death by suicide among the guarani - kaiowa in the loss of their land is compelling , and it is cited in virtually all the research or public discussion about the issue . but it raises serious questions . first , why is it only the guarani - kaiowa ? there are seven other indigenous ethnicities in mato grosso do sul , all with similar trajectories of dispossession , yet only this one has a suicide crisis . eighty per cent of indigenous suicides take place in four " hot spots , " which are home to 40 per cent of the indigenous population . the first is mato grosso do sul ; the other three are in the amazon rain forest , among ethnicities that have dramatically different experiences from the guarani - kaiowa – they have not been driven off their land , they continue to practise traditional agriculture and hunting and handicrafts , and in many cases they are the dominant ethnicity in their towns . two of the amazonian communities share some features : they are in remote areas near borders with colombia and peru – where the federal government has made a push in recent years to increase urbanization and establish a brazilian ( that is , non - indigenous ) presence . there is a large military installation in each , and a growing influence of drug traffickers . but the fourth of the " suicide hot spots " is in a state to the north , in its largest city , with nothing in common with the other areas . " the question of demarcation of land is an interesting lens to look at the suicides in mato grosso do sul , " said maximiliano ponte de souza , a psychiatrist based in the amazonian city of manaus who is one of the leading ( and , he points out dryly , one of the only ) medical experts on indigenous suicide . " but that doesn ' t apply to the amazon , which is where the largest indigenous territories in brazil have been demarcated . " most of the rain - forest communities share one feature : starting in the 1950s , children about nine or 10 years old were taken from their families to live in a network of religious boarding schools run by salesian catholic priests , in an initiative enthusiastically endorsed by the federal government . the schools had a rigorous schedule that combined studying in portuguese ( indigenous languages were forbidden ) and manual work on farms . there have not been reports in brazil of widespread sexual abuse in the schools , but then there has been no public accounting of the residential - school experience . dr . ponte de souza says children were taken young – because that was viewed as the best way to break the cycle of passing on their community ' s spiritual beliefs – and in the process , missed the rituals for the process of becoming adults . the last of the schools was closed in 1986 . the loss of rituals features in a number of anthropology journals , but this is not a clear - cut explanation either : each of the three amazonian hot spots is home to a number of ethnic groups , but as with the guarani - kaiowa , only one such group , in each place , has a suicide crisis . in this , the brazilian situation mirrors canada ' s : there are canadian indigenous communities with epidemics of suicide , such as northern saskatchewan ; and attawapiskat in northern ontario , where more than 100 people tried to kill themselves in the past year . but there are also indigenous canadian communities where the suicide rate is lower than the national one . in a single geographic region , different first nations have a marked difference in suicide rates – the james bay and northern quebec land claim , for example , covers both cree and inuit ; only the inuit have elevated rates of suicide . suicide in canada is often connected with the residential - school experience , yet the largely catholic communities that surround the former residential school at chesterfield inlet in nunavut have some of the lowest suicide rates in the territory . in canada , there is research under way to try to understand why suicide occurs within some but not other groups with highly similar socioeconomic environments and experiences of colonialism . in brazil , dr . ponte de souza works out of a closet - sized office stuffed with what passes for an archive and struggles to scrape together funds to allow a graduate student or two to do field work based on interviews with a dozen people . in mato grosso do sul , i asked everyone i met why they thought the guarani - kaiowa are plagued by suicide , when other first nations living on the surrounding land are not . edemilson canale , the head of indigenous health services , said the guarani - kaiowa reserves are closest to the cities – giving people a sense of what they lack – but also located in the part of the state with the fewest employment possibilities . as a people , they were traditionally semi - nomadic , whereas the people of the terena ethnicity , for example , always farmed , making the " internment " harder for the guarani - kaiowa . his colleague , the psychologist fabiane vick , said her staff reports that the guarani - kaiowa are " much more introspective and reserved than other ethnicities … our professionals find it very difficult – they don ' t share their emotions or suffering . it ' s locked away , even with their own people . " but dr . ponte de souza said this line of explanation makes him uneasy . " people seek answers in the sociocultural organization of each group and their differences . ' the terena are more open in incorporating the new , unlike the guarani - kaiowa ' – that kind of thing . this … places the blame for the suicide on the victim , " he said . " i ask , ' is suicide perhaps a social strategy for diminishing suffering ? ' if i say ' their culture is the cause , ' i forget all the suffering that the community endured . " in every conversation about suicide he has ever had with indigenous people of every ethnicity , he said , it is clear that they see it as a " bad death , " not desirable – so it is difficult to believe there is anything inherent in the people or their culture that makes suicide an acceptable choice , he added . no warning signs – and no one looking to helpin sassoró , i found maria benites sitting in a broken bamboo chair in the dirt patch between the two lean - tos where she and her grandchildren have been sleeping . they moved here from another house after gilmar killed himself in october – most families choose not to stay in a house where jejuvy has happened . she got up and brought out a small , rickety bench for me to sit on – the best piece of furniture for a visitor . the combined material possessions of ms . benites and the two children and four grandchildren who live with her would fit in a laundry basket . nilcilene , 10 , and vera lucia , 5 , listen while their grandmother maria benites talks about two of her sons , who died by suicide in the past year and a half . she said there was no warning sign that either of her boys was considering suicide . junior , she said , was angry that she didn ' t want him to go to an all - night dance party with a friend she believed was a drug user . and when gilmar died , 10 months later – he missed his brother , and he was squabbling with his pregnant wife . but she believes someone may have been envious of her good - looking , healthy sons , and put a spell on them . that , she believes , could unlock angue as well . and that makes her fear for the grandchildren . " i think every day they might take the same path , " she said . " i need to find out who cast the spell , so they can ' t do the same to the others . " but the loss of both these boys , in just a year , has left ms . benites bone - achingly weary , with a sparseness to her movements and an even greater economy of words . thoughts of those boys catch her mind and draw her away for long stretches , when she sits and stares into the middle distance . one thing ms . benites did not tell me , something i learned later from the reserve leader , paulo fiel : junior benites had tried twice before to kill himself . no one in the family sought help , at the time , or later . none came to them . dr . ponte de souza told me he hears variations of this in many of the verbal autopsies he does with the families of suicide victims in the amazon . " in addition to saying that the people were ' normal ' and ' fine , ' family members also said that the person who died by suicide had already attempted suicide other times , " he said . " in other societies , this situation would be considered very alarming and not at all ' normal . ' " but the terrible frequency of suicide has served to normalize it . " and although people have attempted suicide various times , they haven ' t sought help , either from the indigenous health agents or from traditional sources . " and although the deaths were recorded as suicide , help has not sought them , either . on the reserve in amambai , i met claudinéia rodrigues and fernando sarmori , who agreed to talk to me about their son , allen . we settled together in the yard , as their daughters – a six - year - old with a grimy barbie ; an aloof 16 - year - old – swung in a hammock in the yard . allen was 16 , in his first year of high school and thinking about a career in the military when he was found hanged in a tree near their home a year ago . ms . rodrigues sobbed and rocked from side to side , tipping forward so that her dark hair tumbled over to hide her face , saying she was sure someone had a hand in her son ' s death , then telling me that he had her cellphone and was wearing a new shirt she had bought him , on the day he died – words that sounded almost defensive , because the neighbours had told me allen was angry at his parents that he couldn ' t buy a phone or new clothes . " why did they take the life of my son ? " she asked , and wept , and the " they " seemed as if it encompassed all who wished her ill , human and otherwise . mr . sarmori , a tall , thin man , stood behind his wife raking distractedly at the dirt , and told me allen wasn ' t the first , far from it : his father and his sister both hanged themselves . so did ms . rodrigues ' s brother . and yet , despite this , allen ' s parents said that i was the first person to come to their home to ask about him and what was happening when he died . the first to ask about any of the suicides in the family . no mental - health professional has come , no one from the medical service or the reserve leadership , ms . rodrigues said . i heard this in every one of the homes i visited : no one has come . no one has asked . a jarring encounterthe psychologist who covers this region is an earnest white woman named monay larissa de souza , who is 29 . for six years , she served the community – whose language she does not speak – alone , even as the number of youth suicides rose steadily . last year , two more psychologists were added to her team . now they are attempting to visit every home where someone takes his or her own life , in order to identify and try to track family members , she said – because they have learned that when there is one , there will usually be more . in sassoró , the psychologist assigned to the area is one of the few indigenous professionals in the health service , a guarani - kaiowa woman named barbara rodrigues . ( she doesn ' t speak the language either , because her mother , determined that she would get a good education , put her in a " white " school where she learned portuguese . ) she has been in the job a year , and says if she had known what it would entail , she might not have taken it . she hears stories of abuse , but says she has no way to intervene ; stories of people in the community selling alcohol to minors , but can do nothing about it . " it ' s a very frustrating job , i won ' t deny it , " she said , in a late - night conversation on the porch of her home in tacuru , the town near the reserve . " i identify risks and tell the rest of the services , and nothing happens . i ' m here to collect statistics – there ' s nothing else i can do . " in her lap , she held a pink , glitter - spackled folder of her case notes : interviews with family members and friends of the young people who killed themselves in sassoró this year . each one was a litany of misery – of alcoholism , domestic abuse , unemployment , hunger for opportunities that didn ' t come . but the reasons family members give for suicides – " they ' re just trivial things . " it leaves her mystified . " if i could say that ' s the thing that ' s causing it – fantastic , we ' ll go there and tackle it . but i can ' t say . " ms . rodrigues ' s concern was palpable , but i did not find it echoed everywhere . on the reserve in dourados , i had a jarring encounter with the mental - health services . i drove up to the administration office and met the community leader . when i told him i was reporting on suicide , he replied , " we had one yesterday ! or maybe it was two days ago . " he summoned the psychologist on staff , elizeti moreira , and told her why i ' d come . ms . moreira is terena , the only other indigenous psychologist working in the region . she reached into her pocket and drew out her mobile phone , thrusting it toward me to display a picture . " he had been in to see me just two days before , and when i heard the news , i rushed right there to see if it was the same guy . and it was ! hanging here . " she laughed in apparent amazement and shook her head . in the photo on her screen , a man in blue shorts hung from a mango tree , his neck crooked sharply to the left . psychologist elizeti moreira looks out the window of the health centre on the dourados reserve . she led me to her office and read me her case notes from her meeting with onildo de oliveira . he was a father of four , unemployed and deeply troubled about his inability to find work . his former wife had had him detained for failure to pay child support once before , and he didn ' t want to return to jail . the children asked him for food , and he had nothing to give them . he went to apply whenever he heard about jobs , but the people hiring made clear those jobs weren ' t for índios . ms . moreira put his file down and repeated that she had had no hint he might be suicidal . i asked her what she would have done had she suspected he might be . she told me how , a year earlier , a woman of about the same age had come to see her , similarly desperate about how to feed her family . ms . moreira had got her a job washing clothes with a white friend in town , " and then she was fine . " but with mr . oliveira ? " because he ' s a man , there ' s nothing i could do . " i asked if i might be able to meet his family , and the leader told a reluctant ms . moreira to show me the way . as we drove up , through a thicket of trees , she pointed out the one where he had killed himself . his mother , celestina vilhalva , 58 , tiny , hunched , with a weathered face , was crocheting on a bench outside the two - room house , but began to sob when we said we had come to ask about mr . oliveira ; his former wife , mara de souza , 33 , had a dazed expression on her face . they told me that he was a good man , who went to church , and didn ' t drink , and they had had no warning . ms . moreira , the psychologist , interrupted to bring up the cycle of suicides that could be set off now . ms . de souza shuddered . " i don ' t know what this means for my daughter , " she said . while we talked , five - year - old lara ran back and forth in the yard , chasing geese into the tall grass , slowing a little , from time to time , to see if her mother and grandmother still wept . left : alisson ortis and nicole samoiri martin , both eight years old , play in a tree in their yard in amambai . nicole lost her father and brother to suicide . right : the da silva siblings miguel , 4 , bruna , 6 , and neto , 8 , in the village of jaguapiru on the reserve in dourados . child mortality in their community is more than double brazil ’ s national rate . ' valuing life , ' identifying riskdiscussion about the causes of indigenous suicide in canada often focus on the loss of language and cultural identity , and on how young people feel a lack of opportunities for their future . there is broad consensus that these are factors , although they raise the same questions – why some communities with these problems have high rates of suicide and others do not . inuit communities have the highest suicide rates in canada , but in most cases they have the highest levels , among all indigenous peoples , of geographical , language and cultural continuity . some of the newer research in canada looks at intergenerational trauma – at the impact on the young people whose parents and grandparents were coerced into relocation , or abused at residential schools , for example . there is a focus on adversity in early childhood , and how it can play into suicide risk : there is strong evidence to suggest that children who are exposed to " adverse environments " – to alcoholism and drug use , to domestic violence , to sexual abuse even if they are not its direct victim – will develop impulse - control problems and have trouble understanding the consequences of their actions . it ' s a description that fits every one of the cases in barbara rodrigues ' s pink folder . but none of the mental - health workers in mato grosso do sul had ever heard about this research . at the end of 2015 , with 17 suicides in amambai , fabiane vick and her team began to implement the government ' s new suicide - prevention program there . it was the first organized effort in the indigenous health service to address suicide , even though it was the leading cause of death for people under 30 . they got better vehicles , so they could travel to more parts of the reserves , and added to the staff . " we did activities on ' valuing life ' – talking about plans , dreams , goals , self - esteem – with the help of indigenous health agents in communities , " ms . vick said . they held meetings for pastors , leaders , and others in the community called upon to interact with the reserve , such as police and paramedics – and talked to them about identifying suicide risk , and prevention strategies . last year , there were just four suicides in amambai . ms . vick and her team are understandably delighted . but the federal government did not make any provision for research to evaluate the impact of the intervention , or to compare the outcome to communities that do not receive it , so they have to base their plans on their faith that it is working . there was one suicide in amambai in january , of a 26 - year - old ; there were none in february . meanwhile , when i was in amambai , i learned that there was another suicide intervention under way , another possible explanation for the decline in deaths . ilma gomes , the shaman , told me that last year , after so many children took their own lives , she and the other traditional healers got together and decided they needed to take action . clearly these children lacked the forces that would shelter the mokoi and the gwyra , would keep them in place as the guardians against evil spirits . so the healers began to do the rituals of protection , all of them together , at once , every day – in the schools and all the places where young people gather . " we did it for three months . and then the dying stopped . " arsenio vasques , 63 , raised his grandson enildo from the time he was a baby . enildo hanged himself last year , at 16 . mr . vasques has been trying to address the rash of youth suicides in amambai , where he is a community leader – but said he never expected the menace they call jejuvy would touch his own family . ‘to fight these suicides , it can ’ t just be the leaders , it has to be all of us together , teachers , pastors , we all have to be united . ’ stephanie nolen is the globe and mail ' s latin america correspondent . follow her on twitter : @snolenwith research from elisângela mendonçamore from the globe and mailnatan obed : indigenous suicide is no longer a mystery . so why the continued political apathy ? prevention requires an understanding of how social , political and health inequities negatively influence the environments in which children grow up , explains the president of inuit tapiriit kanatami . ’ my cry for help could have been lethal ’ : an mla ’ s message for indigenous youth in distress 2 : 07
__label__relevant  ' i ' m lucky i ' m alive ' : edmonton woman trapped in u . s . after fleeing violent husband kay bohemier moved from edmonton to the united states because she fell in love with a prisoner , a violent man who promised he could change . now bohemier herself has become a prisoner , hiding out in north carolina from the man she married , desperate to escape horrendous domestic violence and return to canada . broke , frightened and feeling helpless , the former stock car racer has been cut off from family and friends during a pandemic that has made travel far more difficult . she said she won ' t feel safe until she is back home and her husband is back behind bars . " when you come forward , you ' re 10 times more likely to be killed , " bohemier , 49 , told cbc news in an interview . " especially when he ' s as violent as he is . i ' m terrified . " state police say bohemier is a victim of domestic violence , and officers have placed her in a secure location so her husband can ' t find and hurt her . she decided to tell her story to encourage other women to come forward and seek help if they are being abused . in 2018 , bohemier began corresponding with john paul gaddy , 31 , after she saw his profile on the website writeaprisoner . com . at the time , gaddy was serving a nine - year sentence for manslaughter and arson after he beat a man to death with a crowbar in 2010 , then set the victim ' s home on fire . bohemier decided to establish a pen - pal relationship with gaddy . " we wrote back and forth for over a year , " she said . " i trusted him . " she said gaddy told her about all the prison courses he had taken aimed at rehabilitation . she thought he was no longer the angry young man who had killed someone . " i truly believe people can change , " she said . in hindsight , she admitted she chose to ignore or explain away the red flags that might have stopped her from leaving her life in edmonton for what she thought would be a romantic new adventure . " he promised me the world , " said bohemier , who has a university degree in business management and accounting . " he would take care of me . he loved me . i was everything to him . and i believed him . " last september , the mother of five , whose children are mostly grown , quit her job in edmonton as a gravel truck driver and drove down to the united states on a six - month visitor visa . when gaddy was released on parole on sept . 2 , 2019 , she was at the avery - mitchell correctional institution in spruce pine , n . c . , to pick him up . " i thought he had changed , " said bohemier , who admitted she sometimes likes to take chances . the first attack happened in october , she said , when he put his hands around her neck . she went to the hospital because she had neck pain , blurry vision , a headache and was unable to hear out of one ear . but she didn ' t tell the doctor the truth about her injuries . in a medical record provided to cbc news , a doctor wrote of bohemier : " reports that last night she was in a bar in downtown charlotte when she was assaulted when she went to the bathroom . " the doctor said bohemier told him a woman had tried to strangle her and she was punched in the head and had her head slammed against a wall . she was given pain medication and written advice about domestic violence . two weeks later , on nov . 2 , 2019 , gaddy beat her unconscious with a blow to the head while they were in a car , she said . " from what i remember , we were having a disagreement about something and he just snapped . he said he was going to kill me . " john paul gaddy with kay bohemier in november 2019 . not long after he got out of prison . ( supplied by kay bohemier ) though she was covered in blood , gaddy drove to a gas station to fill up the car . while he was out of the car , bohemier took a photo of herself . gaddy was unnerved when he got back in the driver ' s seat because he thought someone had spotted the blood and was going to call 911 . he wanted to rush back home . she wanted to go to the hospital . " and he said no , we can ' t take you to the hospital , " bohemier recalled . " i ' ve got to take you home and clean up the blood because i ' ll be arrested if they see you like this . " police went to their house to check on her welfare . gaddy was nearby , listening . " i was terrified , " she said . " i lied actually and said i got jumped at the gas station . i didn ' t tell them it was him . " bohemier felt like it was easier to lie to the police than to risk gaddy ' s wrath . " the thing that went in my mind was if i tell them , he ' s going to kill me eventually . so i hid it . " bohemier remembered what gaddy had told her during an argument she secretly recorded , after she suggested she was going to call 911 . she provided the recording to cbc news . " don ' t call 911 , because i ' ll kill you and i ' ll kill my - goddamn - self , " gaddy yelled on the tape . " we ' ll look just like somebody on abc news . " ' you know i ' d never hurt you for real ' the abuse continued . bohemier said she packed her bags and tried to leave many times . one time , she said , gaddy tried to strangle her . with her suitcase open on the floor , she again secretly recorded their argument by placing her phone in her bra . kay bohemier shows injuries she suffered in the november 2019 assault . ( kay bohemier ) gaddy clearly sounded agitated when bohemier screamed at him , " you put your hands on me . you grabbed me . " soon there was the sound of her being hit and yelling in pain . she begged him to stop . gaddy tried to calm her down for more than 10 minutes as she cried and hyperventilated . " you know i ' d never hurt you for real , " he said . " i know in my mind not to hurt somebody i love . i ain ' t that stupid . " he apologized and told her he loved her . " i love you , too , " she responded . an expert on domestic violence said studies have shown a victim can leave her partner between seven and 20 times before fleeing for good . " it ' s definitely not the same for each woman and their circumstances are very different , " said esther elder with calgary - based women ' s shelter discovery house . kay bohemier ' s suitcase waiting to be packed as she secretly recorded an argument with john gaddy . ( kay bohemier ) " the cycle of violence often begins with a honeymoon period , when the perpetrator is very charming and very caring , which is then followed by increased coercive control that limits the victim ' s ability to act . that builds to violence , followed by a renewed and shortened honeymoon period . " bohemier said she began to feel like a hostage . " he kept me in the house and wouldn ' t allow me to leave , " she said . " he ' s taken my cellphone , my car keys . i ' m lucky i ' m alive . " she married gaddy in february . " i was in it for the long haul , " she said . " i was determined to make it work . " criminal charges laidwhen the pandemic hit , bohemier said her husband often spent his days in quarantine sharpening a machete . " he had knives all over the house , " she said . " he had knives in the bathroom , he had knives in the kitchen , he had knives in the bedroom . " john paul gaddy on the day he married kay bohemier in february 2020 . ( supplied by kay bohemier ) bohemier began communicating with a canadian women ' s shelter . she tried to come up with a final escape plan . on friday , may 15 , while gaddy was in the shower , she grabbed the car keys and fled for the last time . a few days later , she went to the police to report the november assault . after a six - day investigation , gaddy was charged on the memorial day long weekend with felonious assault , assaulting a woman and assault and battery . he was taken into custody , but inmate records show he was only held for 36 hours . " monday was a holiday , " bohemier said . " they had to release him . they can ' t keep him 48 hours without seeing a judge . so they released him on bond . " police found a safe place for her to stay . a judge issued a one - week restraining order . gaddy remains free on probation from his 2010 manslaughter conviction and wears an electronic monitor . bohemier can ' t understand why he hasn ' t been taken back into custody , given the new charges he now faces . elder said bohemier ' s situation is dangerous . " she has a right to feel the way that she is feeling , " she said . " when a woman initially leaves , she is at the greatest risk of homicide . " mother ' s day card john gaddy gave to kay bohemier in may 2020 . she left him five days later . ( supplied by kay bohemier ) in canada , a woman is killed every six days by a current or former intimate partner . elder said during the pandemic , domestic violence has increased in both severity and frequency . bohemier wants to return to canada , but has no money and no source of income . a canadian friend has started a gofundme campaign on her behalf . crossing the border will be more complicated because of the pandemic . " i ' ve contacted the canadian embassy to find out if they ' ll let me back , " bohemier said . " i ' ve got to come armed with all the police reports , my medical records and everything when i get to the borders . " she would also have to provide a two - week quarantine plan . all the while fearing what her husband might do if he finds her . " i ' m happy that i finally came forward and told my story for the first time , because i ' m the victim , " she said . " i did not deserve that . " 
__label__no_relevant canada : three killed in glacier tour bus crash in alberta the bus was on the steep road to the famed athabasca glacier when it lost control and rolleda glacier tour bus rolled over in the canadian province of alberta , killing three people and injuring several , according to reports . a sightseeing bus carrying 27 passengers overturned en route to the glacier near the columbia icefield in alberta ’ s jasper national park , according to a report by cbc . cbc news said the incident involved one of the off - road buses that ferry visitors onto the glacier , owned by pursuit , the company that operates tours of the ice fields , which are part of the athabasca glacier . three adults were killed , and several emergency workers and fire departments were descending on the scene , the report said , citing the royal canadian mounted police ( rcmp ) . critically injured passengers were being transported from the crash site to various alberta hospitals on helicopter ambulances , it said . the report said several hospitals in the province were preparing to receive patients , some in critical or serious condition , citing a spokesperson for alberta health services . rcmp are investigating the cause of the roll - over with the support of a collision analyst , according to cbc news . 
__label__no_relevant 6 torontonians on the decisions that changed their lives for some , self - improvement is a way of life and a constant process . others may encounter a situation in which they are forced to choose : will the new me or the old me rise to meet the challenge ? this summer , in a new series we ’ re calling project me , star reporters will face a fear or make a personal change — from becoming a mature driver ’ s - ed student to growing a beard — and document the effect on their lives . we ’ re launching with the stories of six torontonians who have the benefit of hindsight . the impetus to change comes in many forms , such as a new job , a chance meeting , an earthquake , a new love , a university course , a snap decision to go for it . walking to a new lifeben pobjoy once thought he was living the dream , shuttling between montreal and manhattan , flying around the world , eating whatever was delivered to the office late at night . he never had to walk . he just hailed a cab . when pobjoy , 34 , took a job as creative director at a toronto ad agency in 2013 , he was the 260 - pound guy complaining of aching joints while his “ radically fit ” co - workers discussed after - work barre classes . he needed to make a change . he swapped a 20 - minute streetcar commute for a 28 - minute walk . pobjoy soon fell in love with walking . it rewired his life . he lost 100 pounds in 2015 , walking more than 100 kilometres per week all around toronto . he once walked to hamilton for fun , and started swimming and boxing . all that time at street level helped pobjoy dream up ideas for work , but also opened his eyes to urban inequality and homelessness . he now fills a backpack with homemade sandwiches for those in need . friends and acquaintances have told him they ’ ve been inspired to hand out bottled water , hand - knitted scarves and their own sandwiches . “ making these tiny adjustments was as if i was an ocean liner changing my co - ordinates one degree , ” pobjoy says . “ over months , the ship ends up in a completely different place . ” inspiration from an elderin his early 20s , michael etherington moved to toronto on a whim , but was torn between the city and the north . visiting family on nunavut ’ s rankin inlet , he was told inuit elder mariano aupilardjuk wanted to meet the young cree man from moosonee , ont . aupilardjuk , a fierce promoter and defender of traditional language and culture , displayed three stones and told etherington in inuktitut the meaning behind them : one for the old ways , one for modern life , and one for the way forward . ( aupilardjuk died in 2012 at 89 . ) the elder predicted etherington , now 30 , would become a great educator . at the time , he was stocking shelves and dreaming of being a famous musician . but he was moved by the elder ’ s wisdom and patient countenance . something clicked . etherington got serious . he went on to become an aboriginal youth worker , speaker and cultural program manager of the native canadian centre of toronto . he promotes “ principle - based thinking , ” drawing on indigenous values and identity to address contemporary issues in an urban place . he has collected his own trio of symbolic items : an eagle feather , representing the struggle facing his people ; a hand drum with no skin , for the gap between traditional values and modern life ; a tamarack goose decoy , for the importance of land teachings . “ as indigenous people , we are still vibrant , ” he says . “ still resilient , still here , and still contributing . ” dancing to confidenceas a child , simone samuels dreaded showing her bare arms . always the last kid picked for sports teams , always the tallest or heaviest girl in class , samuels has struggled with confidence . samuels , now 28 and articling at the federal department of justice , discovered zumba dancing during law school and somehow felt at ease when instructors chose her to dance at the front . samuels wanted to start teaching , to “ show that fitness comes in a variety of sizes , and also to inspire people to get moving and stop caring about what you look like when you ’ re dancing . ” loading . . . loading . . . loading . . . loading . . . loading . . . loading . . . memories of body - shaming made her apprehensive . but just as one day she decided to go sleeveless , she gave zumba a shot and sought her teaching certificate . after teaching her first class , the response was positive all around . participants loved her enthusiasm . confidence , samuels says , is cumulative . “ when you face one small fear it gives you more encouragement to face other fears , ” she says . “ becoming more of myself gives other people permission to do the same . ” from art director to artistnadine prada was sleeping 20 storeys up in a glamorous hotel in santiago , chile , when the walls turned to jell - o . as the bedside lamp smashed to the floor , prada , now in her 40s , believed she might die that night in 2010 : either from the 8 . 8 earthquake or from a heart attack . she remembered little earthquakes from childhood in trinidad — this was huge . “ if this is it for me , ” she thought , “ i really , really screwed up . there are so many things i left unfinished . i never became a full - time artist . i never had a great love of my life . there are so many things i never got to make or do . ” at the time prada was working 80 hours a week as an art director at a global ad firm . but she had no one to meet her at the airport when she arrived home safe in toronto . the experience was overwhelming . “ i knew i ’ d been given a second chance , ” says prada . within months she held a packed solo art exhibit and resigned from her job . prada had always been afraid she ’ d starve , not thrive , as an artist . now her main job is painting abstract landscapes . after the earthquake , “ i felt very awake and very aware , ” she says . “ i just had to go for it . i can ’ t die with my music still in me . ” a vague title leads to specific goalswendi sun found herself miserable . she was plodding along in her studies at the university of toronto , but pressure , not passion , had led her there . she grew up loving piano , but not the classical music she was practising . she was drifting . “ i felt like i had no way out , ” she says . escape was unexpected , and painful : three concussions in 2014 and 2015 — from figure skating , lifeguarding and an accident while travelling — led her to drop most of her courses after winding up on academic probation . the future was murky . “ everything became a question mark , ” she says . when she finally returned to finish her degree , sun , now 25 , selected a course with a vague name : “ maps of meaning . ” the course , designed by psychology professor jordan peterson , delves into religion , myth , science and ideology . the course also involved rigorous goal setting . for the first time , sun had to envision an ideal future , which includes finishing her novel , postgrad studies in social work , and travelling solo . it was a revelation . “ i went from not thinking very far in the future to being grateful for having a life to live , ” says sun , who has finished her program . “ i am in control of my future now . ” facing fears togethermichael tudor and larry konyu have been fortunate . they know that . but despite 36 happy years together , the old fear can return in new situations . should they dance together at family weddings ? should they tell new clients they recently married ? can they retire to tudor ’ s native barbados , where homosexuality remains illegal ? they both came out during an era when the rights of gay people were not protected . konyu , 68 , was afraid to tell his hungarian - ukrainian family , ex - wife and children in 1980 he had met the love of his life , a man , at the gym adjacent to a toronto bathhouse that was later raided . ( he and tudor remain friends with his ex and close to his daughters and grandchildren . ) tudor , now 64 , was unsure how his anglican minister father and english headmistress mother would react when he told them in 1977 . ( upon meeting konyu , they welcomed their “ new canadian son ” immediately . ) over the years , tudor refused to stay closeted , insisting on small but significant things : approaching customs together at airports , attending parent - teacher nights . konyu was more hesitant but buoyed by tudor ’ s courage . both men became teachers — tudor at high schools and u of t ’ s ontario institute for studies in education , konyu as a college it instructor — and in their semi - retirement , run a communication skills and team - building business . even now , there ’ s still anxiety . “ how do you get over the fear ? love , trust , acceptance , and honesty , ” konyu says . “ there ’ s hope you can be in a relationship for 36 years . ” 
__label__relevant 20 years after jassi sidhu was murdered , court case continues twenty years ago , jassi sidhu was kidnapped with her husband during a visit to the punjab region in india . the 25 - year - old , born and raised in maple ridge , was brutally murdered , and her husband , sukhwinder mithu sidhu , badly beaten . in the years since , a dozen people were charged with sidhu ' s murder , and seven were tried . after trials and appeals , three individuals are serving sentences for sidhu ' s killing on june 8 , 2000 . however , the alleged instigators of the attack , sidhu ' s mother and uncle , malkit sidhu and surjit badesha — who are accused of plotting her murder because they disapproved of her marrying sukhwinder mithu sidhu — were only extradited to india to stand trial in 2019 . in india , the pair , who are both in their 70s , are standing trial on charges of supplying money to contract killers in order to have jassi sidhu killed . fabian dawson , a former deputy editor of the province and vancouver sun , broke the original story about sidhu ' s murder in 2000 and has written extensively about the case . he said sidhu ' s murder has been a galvanizing look into family violence , extradition issues , and forced marriage . " you can extrapolate a lot of issues from this particular case and look deeper into the systematic abuse that is happening with some of the indian women in canada , " dawson said . watch the fifth estate documentary on the jassi sidhu case : justice for jassi : a young woman from b . c . was killed during a visit to india in the year 2000 . her mother and uncle allegedly planned it because she married a poor indian rickshaw driver . 45 : 10but justice for sidhu could still be a long time coming . dawson says it ' s merely the beginning of the case in india after two decades , and the trial could go on for some time . " assuming they get convicted and the appeal processes start kicking in . you have an appeal process to the highest court in punjab , and then after that probably an appeal to the supreme court of india , so it could take anything from now another five to seven years before any kind of conclusion can be arrived at , " he said . 
__label__relevant ‘melrose place ’ star jamie luner accused of drugging , filming sex act with teenager in ’ 90s the man who recently accused former “ melrose place ” star jamie luner of performing oral sex on him when he was a teen now says the actress also drugged him and taped the sex act — accusations she says have “ no merit . ” anthony oliver told tmz he met luner at a party she threw at her los angeles home in 1998 that he attended with his brother . oliver — then 16 — said luner — then around 26 — provided him with alcohol and drugs before they went to a bedroom with a third unidentified person . he said this other person recorded luner while she performed oral sex on oliver . oliver told page six he accepted both whiskey and methamphetamines from luner . also read : ex - google engineer sues company for sexual harassment , says she was slapped at company party “ i was not in the right state of mind , ” oliver told the outlet . “ there is absolutely no merit to these allegations , and in our opinion , this is a blatant attempt at extortion , ” luner ’ s manager tells thewrap . according to tmz , oliver says he spoke to his parents about the alleged incident back in 1998 and filed a police report with the los angeles police department last month . oliver told tmz he reported the encounter after his therapist , who is treating him for alcoholism , suggested he come forward . more to come…
__label__relevant saving family no . 417 amal alkhalaf and her children ( dalya , 8 ; ansam , 13 ; ibrahim , 10 ) escaped isis - controlled territory in syria in 2014the journey of one syrian mother , her three children—and the complete strangers who made it their mission to bring them to canada . by michael friscolanti , in beirut , lebanon and peterborough , ontariothe first martyr came by motorcycle , weaving through a concrete maze of narrow roads and low - rise apartments . his final destination—his supposed gateway to paradise—was a residential market district brimming with civilians . when the bike exploded , ripping through coffee shops and clothing racks , a second suicide bomber unleashed an encore . even before islamic state claimed responsibility , the motive was obvious . the target—bourj el - barajneh , one of beirut ’ s congested southern suburbs—is hezbollah turf , a largely shia district in lebanon . across the border in war - torn syria , hezbollah is fighting alongside bashar al - assad ’ s forces , battling mostly sunni insurgents , isis included . the market massacre ( 47 dead ) was yet another volley . the very next night , nov . 13 , islamic state terrorists struck again—in downtown paris . if canadians had even heard about the carnage in beirut , it was quickly forgotten . three weeks later , a woman is standing in the same street market . a sunni muslim , she is wearing a checkered hijab , green and black , and holding tightly to the hand of her eight - year - old daughter . all around them , there is little evidence left of the damage . the charred debris that littered the intersection was promptly shovelled away , and a fresh coat of paint covers the cement facade that endured the brunt of the attacks . afternoon shoppers criss - cross the road as if nothing happened here , walking underneath dangling webs of wires that zigzag from balcony to balcony . “ i have not been outside since the explosion , ” the woman says , speaking arabic . “ if you didn ’ t call me to meet you , i wouldn ’ t have come outside . it is too scary . ” her name is amal alkhalaf , and although she doesn ’ t realize it yet , that name alone means so much to so many . on the other side of the world—in peterborough , ont . , a city that could not be further away from the armed checkpoints that surround bourj el - barajneh—a group of strangers has made it their mission to sponsor her family and bring them to canada , despite never seeing her face or hearing her voice . all they know is her name , and that she and her three kids , living somewhere in lebanon , are among the many millions of syrian refugees who fled for their lives . the people in peterborough have no idea that this woman and her children , two girls and a boy , escaped isis territory 14 months ago , only to have islamic state ’ s violence follow them to lebanon . they don ’ t know that the kids have not been to school in nearly two years . “ i worry about them constantly , ” says kristy hiltz , a veterinarian who spearheaded the sponsorship group . “ i really hope they know that somebody out there is already very attached to them . ” in countless ways , syria ’ s humanitarian crisis has brought out the very best in canadians , even before justin trudeau ’ s liberals swept to power on a campaign promise to welcome 25 , 000 refugees in record time . a single , sickening image—a three - year - old boy dead on a beach , when british columbia could have been home—became a nationwide rallying cry . hundreds of private sponsorship groups mobilized in a matter of days , each one determined to rescue the next alan kurdi . this is the story of one of those groups—a collection of 14 everyday canadians motivated by the same , simple goal as all the groups : to do what ’ s right . to do something . this is a story about a facebook post , and the wide cast of characters who answered the challenge . a story about teachers and scientists and a jewish dance instructor who didn ’ t hesitate to donate time and money . a story about professors . a cop . a blues musician . an engineer . a decorated soldier . a vietnamese boat person determined to pay forward the generosity that saved her own family . this is a story about a city ( population 79 , 000 ) that has a long , quiet history of welcoming refugees . a city where the newly elected mp was herself a refugee—but a city that also made global headlines after someone , post - paris , firebombed its only mosque . more than anything , though , this is a story about a woman with a name , a resilient but frightened single mother who has no idea her canadian sponsors even exist—until this december afternoon , when maclean ’ s tracks her down in beirut ’ s notorious southern suburbs . amal alkhalaf only knows that she and her children have been accepted for resettlement , nothing more . she has certainly never heard of a place called peterborough . david mcnab has a nickname for his wife of 23 years : the freight train of enthusiasm . when kristy hiltz puts her mind to something , in other words , don ’ t even think about standing in her tracks . the moniker fits dave just as well . “ we tend to look at things in terms of : ‘how can we help ? ’ ” he says . “ or at least we try to . ” their own marriage is proof of the couple ’ s devotion to seeing things through . dave met kristy during a jamaican vacation , and they embarked on a long - distance love when both returned to their homes ( kristy to peterborough ; dave to his ontario provincial police posting in haileybury , five hours north ) . although const . mcnab did secure a transfer to bancroft ( only 100 km from his fiancée ) , another 18 months would pass—including seven as husband and wife—before the couple lived under the same roof . dave has been stationed in peterborough ever since . ninety minutes northeast of toronto , peterborough is known as “ the electric city ” because it was the first in canada to use electric streetlights ( 1884 ) . the community ’ s official name dates back to peter robinson , a politician who oversaw the region ’ s first major immigration wave in 1825 : the arrival of 2 , 000 irish - catholic farmers . today , the population remains overwhelmingly white ( fewer than four per cent are visible minorities ) and increasingly elderly . add in the surrounding townships , and nearly one in five is a senior . ask the locals what they treasure most—besides the petes , the junior hockey team that has produced a long list of nhlers—and two answers top the list : the city ’ s small - town feel , and the kindness of neighbours . one recent survey asked residents to rank what they love about peterborough . “ we are a caring community ” was the no . 1 response . ‘i worry about them constantly ’ dave and kristy raised their three kids in the rural countryside of millbrook , a neighbouring township where the children displayed their own caring side in the early 2000s . members of a group called “ kids 4 turtles ” lobbied local politicians to erect traffic signs on country roads , warning drivers to watch out for the little reptiles crossing the street . mom , the freight train of enthusiasm , later helped launch the kawartha turtle trauma centre , where , to this day , injured turtles are rehabilitated and released . dave caught some grief from fellow officers ( “ f–k , dave . turtles ? ” one sergeant razzed him ) but not anymore . “ i still get texts from people saying : ‘hey , i saved a turtle , ’ ” he laughs . like so many around the world , kristy was repulsed when she first saw the photo : a lifeless little boy , face down on the shore of a turkish resort . alan kurdi resembled anyone ’ s precious toddler , dressed in blue shorts and a red t - shirt . “ it was too much , ” says the 51 - year - old . “ i don ’ t know how else to say it . ” in an instant , one photo awakened the world to a refugee crisis that had been unfolding in plain sight for four years . in canada—where the federal election campaign was in full throttle—horror turned to outrage after a report that the boy ’ s aunt , a hairdresser in port coquitlam , b . c . , had applied to sponsor the family of alan ’ s uncle , with the hope of one day sponsoring alan ’ s family , too . after ottawa rejected his brother ’ s application , alan ’ s father hatched a far more dangerous plan : piling his family into a motorboat bound for the greek island of kos . along with alan , the mediterranean sea swallowed his five - year - old brother , galib , and their mother , rehana . on sept . 4 , the friday before labour day weekend , kristy posted alan ’ s photo on her facebook feed . “ this child and his family should be alive in canada today , ” she wrote . “ canada , and the rest of the world , needs to step up to help refugees , or their blood is on our hands . ” like so many , kristy hiltz was horrified : ‘this child and his family should be alive in canada ’ if statistics told the entire story , ottawa was not exactly ignoring the plight of syrian refugees . last january , eight months before alan died , stephen harper ’ s conservatives announced a plan to resettle 10 , 000 displaced syrians over the next three years ( after already welcoming 1 , 300 under a previous promise ) . but in the eyes of many canadians , that was hardly enough . from coast to coast , frontline organizations that assist immigrants and refugees couldn ’ t answer the ringing telephones fast enough . among those flooded with voicemails was the new canadians centre ( ncc ) , a peterborough settlement agency that offers everything from language training to job counselling . “ people were asking : ‘what are you guys doing ? what can we do ? ’ ” says tamara hoogerdyk of the ncc . “ so we thought , ‘well , we have to take the lead on this . ’ ” staff scrambled to organize a sponsorship workshop on sept . 10 , one week after the image hit the internet . more than 70 people showed up , including kristy hiltz . “ i went to hear what they had to say . and i thought : ‘we can do this . we can totally do this . ’ ” a crisis negotiator , dave was deployed out of town at the time . kristy dialled his cell . “ she was very excited , ” he remembers . “ the idea , to me , seemed terrific , although intimidating . but the more i talked to kristy , the more it just made sense . ” dave himself is an immigrant , coming from scotland as a toddler . the following day , sept . 11 , kristy posted another facebook message to her 300 - plus friends . “ dave and i want to co - sponsor a refugee , individual or family , ” she wrote . “ we are looking for people who would be willing to co - sponsor with us . ” the plan was for each volunteer to donate money ( at least $500 per person , or $1 , 000 per couple ) and one year of time and energy . for a brief moment , kristy felt extremely vulnerable . what if nobody responded ? myra hirschberg was born and raised in new york city , the granddaughter of eastern european jews who immigrated to the united states in the early 20th century . from a young age , she understood— “ breathed in , ” as she puts it—the importance of helping those less fortunate . “ it is an inherent part of the jewish religion : to share what you have with others , ” she says . “ it ’ s true of every religion i ’ m familiar with , including islam . ” ‘there is actually something we can do that is going to make a difference ’ her true passion is dancing—contra - dancing , in particular . it ’ s sort of like square dancing , except it ’ s done in lines . now in her 60s , myra has travelled all over north america to teach others the steps . it ’ s how she met her canadian husband , tom calwell , an aerospace engineer . “ we were at a dance week in west virginia , ” she recalls . the couple retired to peterborough , where kristy hiltz is their veterinarian . “ the plight of refugees was all over the news , and i had been spending days feeling completely helpless to do anything concrete , ” myra says . “ when kristy posted that message it was like : ‘there is actually something we can do that is going to make a difference in somebody ’ s life . ’ ” her husband was immediately on board . “ i was feeling as a country we were getting a really bad rep , ” tom says , “ and i wanted to do anything positive . ” ‘their names and ages—that ’ s all we know ’ lise fines didn ’ t hesitate , either . a grade 7 teacher at st . paul ’ s elementary school , she and her husband , rick , first met kristy more than a decade ago , when she performed two surgeries , free of charge , on their ailing dog . “ we always think : ‘who do we want our three - year - old daughter to become , and how is she going to learn that ? ’ ” says lise , 46 . “ i wanted her to see that this is what we can do if someone needs our help . ” she and rick , a blues and folk musician , sat down to hammer out a payment plan . “ i imagine myself there and how hopeless it would feel , ” says rick , 53 . two days later , lise was chopping away in her kitchen beside a close friend , stephanie melles , an ecology professor at ryerson university . melles ’ s research specialty is ecoinformatics ( an emerging field that integrates stats and engineering into the study of ecosystems ) , but on that sunday afternoon , the task at hand was a bit less complicated : prepping slow - cooker meals for the freezer , from mongolian beef to green chili pork . as lise and stephanie sliced and measured , the conversation turned to syrian refugees . like lise , stephanie has a three - year - old , and the photo of alan hit close to home . “ it almost looked like he was sleeping , ” she says . some of her ryerson colleagues were already working to sponsor syrians , but because stephanie commutes to toronto , she wouldn ’ t have been much help to a family resettling near campus . lise had a better idea : she put her in touch with kristy . “ steph jumped on it right away , ” says her husband , trevor middel , a fisheries biologist . the group takes shapetop row : dance teacher myra hirschberg , french teacher paulette quinn , and nurse practitioner and retired canadian forces major lee - anne quinn . middle row : retired engineer tom calwell , grade 7 teacher carla gorman , and fisheries biologist trevor middel . bottom row : grade 7 teacher lise fines , musician rick fines , and ecology professor stephanie melles . the group was quickly taking shape : kristy and dave ( the vet and the cop ) . myra and tom ( the dancer and the engineer ) . rick and lise ( the musician and the teacher ) . trevor and stephanie ( the biologist and the prof ) . lise—herself a freight train of enthusiasm—recruited another co - sponsor with no previous connection to kristy or dave : paulette quinn , the french teacher at st . paul ’ s . one of eight brothers and sisters , the 59 - year - old is always fundraising for one school cause or another . “ sometimes all you can do is send some money somewhere , ” she says . “ but this was really getting involved in bringing a family over and looking after that family . ” one of paulette ’ s younger sisters , lee - anne quinn , lives right across the street , and every night after supper they head out for a walk . during one september stroll , she told lee - anne about the group , knowing full well her sibling would jump to join . “ that ’ s just the kind of person lee - anne is , ” paulette says . not that lee - anne would ever say so . “ she ’ s very discrete , ” paulette says , putting it mildly . when asked about herself , lee - anne is accurate but brief . a nurse practitioner , she served 23 years in the canadian forces , including four tours ( in the former yugoslavia , somalia , rwanda and afghanistan ) . maj . quinn ’ s family had no doubt she would join the military ; even as a young girl , she was ultra - organized , ensuring the others folded their clothes and made their beds . her kandahar deployment ( 2007 - 08 ) was an eight - month whirlwind at the multinational hospital , where she helped treat a constant influx of battlefield casualties . more than once , she held the hand of a canadian soldier as he took his final breaths . “ it ’ s actually a privilege to be in that position , ” she says . some days , lee - anne would set up a clinic in a desolate patch of the country , where local women and children had never seen a medical professional before . “ i don ’ t live in ignorance , ” she says . “ i know there are some desperate corners of our world out there , and when you see it , you really get a sense of appreciation for what canada has to offer . ” maj . quinn retired in 2008 , never thinking twice about where her next posting would be : back home . “ when the sponsorship project was presented to me i thought : ‘wow , being retired military , i can still make a difference for people who live so far away , ’ ” she says . “ it ’ s quite humbling , actually . ” lee - anne neglects to mention how she volunteered to serve three stints as the only health - care provider in a remote first nations community , where her work with children—including building an outdoor rink , and convincing the nhl players association to fly in sticks , pucks and skates—earned her the nightingale award as ontario ’ s top nurse . her order of military merit , the canadian forces ’ equivalent to the order of canada ? she doesn ’ t bring that up , either . paulette does . “ that is not important today , ” lee - anne says . “ what ’ s important today is getting a family to safety . ” from the outside , there is nothing unique about the brick house with the arched front door . it blends right in with all the other homes on this residential road near downtown peterborough . a nun answers the doorbell , wearing black pants and a violet sweater . “ welcome , ” she says . it is not the first time—nor the last—sister ruth hennessey has uttered that reassuring word to someone standing on her front porch . all these years later , sister ruth still marvels at how she ended up here , living in a bedroom upstairs while so many refugees come and go on the two floors below . a teacher for nearly four decades , she is part of the local sisters of st . joseph , a congregation that started opening its motherhouse to refugees in the 1990s . demand soon trumped capacity . “ one summer i was asked to find a house , ” she says . “ this one was in a good neighbourhood and it had a basement apartment . ” they called the property casa maria . the nuns went on to buy two other homes , providing temporary accommodation to more than 150 refugee families since 1994 . “ i have such faith in these people that come to us , ” says sister ruth , now in her late 70s . “ they are good people—wonderful people . ” she has chronicled each one , their photos filling numerous albums spread out on the dining room table . among the smiling faces is a 12 - year - old girl from afghanistan—maryam monsef—who came to casa maria , with her mother and two sisters , in the spring of 1996 . they lived in the basement apartment . “ she didn ’ t speak a word of english , ” sister ruth recalls , flipping through the photographs . “ they had nothing when they arrived here . ” how things would change . peterborough ’ s newly elected liberal mp , maryam monsef , arrived in canada as a refugeewhen kristy hiltz posted her facebook challenge , monsef , now 30 , was running as the local liberal candidate in the federal election . her eventual victory made her the first afghan - born mp , and her cabinet post ( minister of democratic institutions ) marked another historic first . “ maryam would always say : ‘i ’ m going to make you proud of me , ’ ” sister ruth recalls . “ and i would say : ‘i ’ ve always been proud of you . ’ ” most of the refugees who funnel through casa maria are not sponsored ; they manage to get to canada on their own , then file asylum claims . a few times a year , however , casa maria does apply to sponsor a specific refugee living overseas . “ the process is very , very slow , ” sister ruth says . “ but once this little boy ’ s picture was shown across the world , people came alive and wanted to do something . ” she knew exactly where to point all those motivated people : aspa bouzinelos . years from now , when peterborough has a thriving community of syrian - canadians , aspa will be a major reason why . ‘we have to be there for them , walk with them ’ a longtime member of casa maria ’ s advisory board ( and a greek immigrant who teaches english as a second language ) , aspa had just taken the reins of another volunteer position : the sponsorship agreement holder ( sah ) rep at the roman catholic diocese of peterborough . numbering nearly 100 across canada , a sah is an organization approved by ottawa as a trusted partner in refugee resettlement . ranging from the salvation army to the mennonite central committee , sahs can either sponsor refugees directly or allow groups to apply under their umbrella . simply put , it is infinitely easier for a new group to work with a sah ; processing times are much faster , and approval rates much higher . “ people started phoning and asking if they could meet , ” aspa says . the calls still haven ’ t stopped ; at last count , the diocese is working with 35 sponsorship groups in the peterborough area . “ i manage , ” aspa smiles . “ i go home at night and respond to all the emails . ” when she sat down with kristy ’ s group for the first time , on sunday , sept . 20 , it was the fourth group she ’ d met that day . ‘it just really struck a chord with me ’ they gathered in the living room at casa maria : kristy , dave , myra , tom , stephanie and lise . sister ruth poured coffee for the guests as aspa explained the basics . although most groups sponsor a friend or relative of someone already in canada , there is another stream—the “ blended visa office - referred , ” or bvor—in which ottawa matches groups with vulnerable families recommended for resettlement by the united nations refugee agency . under that program , ottawa covers six months of income support ( up to $13 , 500 ) while the group pays the other six months ( hence the term “ blended ” ) . but there is one major downside to the program : cases are extremely rare . by the time kristy ’ s group convened at casa maria , only 29 syrian refugees had arrived under the bvor stream since the beginning of 2014 . nevertheless , everyone at the meeting was optimistic that somehow , some way , they ’ d be matched with a family who needed their help . it happened before , after all . one of the group ’ s own members—phung tran , sitting with the others that sunday—was living proof . there was no internet back then . no twitter . no medium for a single photo to spread across the globe in a matter of minutes . but when those black - and - white images hit front pages in 1979—tens of thousands of indochinese refugees , fleeing communism on flimsy , overcrowded boats—the reaction was equally visceral : canadians needed to help . prime minister joe clark responded with a now - historic pledge , vowing to open canada ’ s doors to 50 , 000 boat people over the next 18 months ( a target later boosted to 60 , 000 ) . more than half would end up being privately sponsored—including 11 who landed in the small town of sussex , n . b . , their resettlement paid for by the parishioners of st . paul ’ s united church . “ we had to raise $12 , 000 , ” recalls daniel keith , the church ’ s clerk of the session at the time . “ amongst the congregation , everyone just ponied up . ” the newcomers included a young family airlifted out of a malaysian refugee camp : loc and chu tran , and their 18 - month - old daughter , phung . daniel ’ s daughter , mary , first met the trans in the church nursery . mary was pregnant with her second daughter , as was chu . “ chu looked across the room at me and i saw her hand slide down her stomach , ” says mary , now 65 . “ i thought to myself : ‘she is pregnant . ’ i can still remember that moment , and i often think about how that gesture bridged the whole cultural divide . ” it also marked the beginning of a lifelong bond between the trans and the keiths . they are family now , not friends . a teacher back in south vietnam , phung ’ s father quickly found work at a refrigeration company , then at a poultry plant . in between shifts , he took english classes—in saint john , 70 km away . ( parishioners volunteered to drive him back and forth . ) when he and chu were busy at work , loc would often ask if daniel and his wife , ann , could babysit . they never refused . “ my mother was a very kind person , but she didn ’ t let people into her life easily , ” mary says . “ she did completely in this case . she just loved those children dearly . ” phung and her baby sister , lea , spent so much time at the keith home that they came to consider ann and daniel their “ canadian grandparents . ” mary still has photos of the tran girls playing with her daughters , frances and eliza . “ they enriched our lives so much , ” she says , her voice cracking . “ helping this family was probably the most gratifying thing i ’ ve ever done in my life . ” after nearly four years in new brunswick , loc and chu made the difficult decision to move their family to toronto , 1 , 500 km away . though grateful to everyone at st . paul ’ s , especially the keiths , they felt ontario offered the best future . “ it was sad for us , ” says daniel , now 94 . “ loc was just like a brother to me . ” despite the distance , the families never lost touch . the keiths followed from afar as loc and chu , both employed at a duck farm , reaped the benefits of their hard work . they bought a home in suburban newmarket , put their kids through post - secondary school , and saved enough for a comfortable retirement . “ in some ways , i think they ’ re still in shock , ” phung , now 38 , says of her parents . “ they have a little house here on pigeon lake , just outside of peterborough . and their kids have houses now . ” a graduate of trent university , phung is a biologist with the ontario ministry of natural resources , where she works on species - at - risk legislation . she met her husband , fellow biologist brad steinberg , while conducting field research at algonquin park . they have a son , jack . when their daughter was born two years ago , they named her annie—in honour of phung ’ s “ canadian grandmother . ” sadly , ann was in a nursing home by then , suffering from late - stage alzheimer ’ s disease . “ it brought tears to my eyes , ” daniel says , remembering the first time he heard the baby ’ s name . “ i tried to tell my wife , but i don ’ t know if she could take it in . ” ann keith died on dec . 2 , 2014 , shortly after her 66th wedding anniversary . a few months later , phung received a letter in the mail—with a cheque from ann ’ s estate . ann had inherited some money late in life , and before alzheimer ’ s clouded her mind , she crafted a will that ensured all her loved ones , the trans included , received a share . phung was so surprised that she phoned mary in new brunswick to make sure it wasn ’ t a mistake . “ i didn ’ t know if i deserved it , ” she says . “ i was stunned . ” it ’ s what mom wanted , mary assured her . “ it confirmed that she felt we were her grandkids , too , ” phung says . ‘it ’ s part of my life . it ’ s part of my story . ’ she and brad invested some of ann ’ s money in the kids ’ resps , but weren ’ t quite sure what to do with the rest . then phung read kristy ’ s facebook post . “ when the photo of alan kurdi was all over the place , it was pretty tough for me , ” she says . “ there is always that sense of guilt : ‘why did i make it when so many others didn ’ t ? ’ ” phung and brad knew exactly what to do , pledging $1 , 000—and their time and energy—toward kristy ’ s group . “ this was a way for phung to sort of pay it forward , ” brad says . “ someone 35 years ago—strangers—brought her family over , and for us to be able to do the same thing was pretty important . ” a perfect tribute to ann ’ s memory . for phung , joining the group also provided something else : the motivation to learn more about her own story . she was too young to remember her family ’ s harrowing boat ride to malaysia , and her parents have shared few details . “ we had to make the decisions we had to make , ” was the extent of their answer , whenever she asked . “ this whole experience has given me that push , that opportunity , to talk about these things and ask my parents questions without feeling awkward or out of place , ” she says . “ it ’ s meant so much to me . ” carla gorman has known aspa for years . sister ruth , too . teachers tend to cross paths , especially in smaller centres like peterborough . “ the picture of that little boy , it broke my heart , ” carla says . “ i was talking to aspa and i said : ‘you know what ? i really want to help somehow , i want to join a group . ’ and aspa said : ‘well , lise has one . ’ ” which was perfect for carla . lise teaches one grade 7 class at st . paul ’ s ; carla teaches the other . the group was now up to 13 . it also had a name : salaam peterborough—families helping families . sept . 25 , exactly two weeks after kristy ’ s post , was a huge day . sponsorship agreement holders were put on notice that ottawa was about to post 50 new syrian cases to the bvor stream . basic summaries of each case ( genders , ages , etc . ) would be shared , via email ; sahs could then claim a particular file , like a general manager on draft day . aspa wasn ’ t overly optimistic . syrian refugees were suddenly in high demand , and she knew each case would be scooped up . her hunch proved correct ; only 15 files were posted that friday , and none went to her diocese . the following monday , sept . 28 , another email arrived in her inbox . “ dear sponsors , ” it read . “ please find information on 10 more syrian bvor cases . ” the attached list included : bvor 417 : a mother and three children , ages 12 , 10 and 8 . bvor 418 : a husband , wife and three children , ages 7 , 6 and 3 . bvor 420 : another husband , wife and three children , ages 19 , 16 and 14 . aspa replied right away , saying she had a group willing to accept any of those three . she typed so frantically she misspelled her name at the end of the email ( asoa ) . “ i responded in 4 minutes ! ” she wrote lise at 12 : 16 p . m . “ let ’ s see what happens . ” another four minutes after that , aspa received the reply that eluded her on friday . “ hi aspa . bvor 417 is on hold for your sah . ” just 17 days after kristy turned to facebook in search of fellow sponsors , the group she created had been matched with its family : a single mom and three kids living in lebanon . while serving in afghanistan , lee - anne quinn treated children in remote villagesit was lunch hour at school when lise , sitting at her desk , received the confirmation email . she pumped her fist in the air— “ yes ! ” —and sprinted out of the classroom , her grade 7s trailing behind . “ i scooted as fast as i could to find carla and tell her the news , ” lise says . “ we hugged and jumped for joy , and then we went down the hall to find paulette . it was just a really exciting moment for us . ” one student asked if they ’ d won the lottery . “ something like that , ” mrs . fines replied . the confirmation email did not include the names ( or faith ) of the four family members , but it did provide some additional details about bvor 417 . the mother , a syrian , was described as a 41 - year - old homemaker with no education . her husband—wherever he was , dead or alive—appeared to be iraqi because all three kids were listed as iraqi citizens ( although the youngest daughter was born in syria , suggesting the family had moved back to the mother ’ s home country after living in iraq . ) under the category “ urgency ” was one word , in capital letters : high . when myra hirschberg read those details , she had two immediate thoughts . “ one was : ‘this woman doesn ’ t speak english , she has three kids , she is a single parent , and it ’ s going to be a major job for her to get on her feet when she gets here , ’ ” she says . “ thought two was : ‘she must be an amazingly strong person to have managed on her own to survive what she survived with three kids . ’ i don ’ t think i could have made it as far . ” ‘i think she ’ s pretty brave ’ by this point , the nation was immersed in two diversions : the tail end of the election campaign , and toronto blue jays playoff baseball . but with a family now secured , the group focused on its fundraising efforts . they needed $13 , 500 to match ottawa ’ s contribution , and the members ’ personal pledges put them about halfway there . a mix of social media and word - of - mouth would raise the rest—and then some . “ generosity begets generosity , ” says trevor , stephanie ’ s husband . “ it helps when people see we are just everyday canadians reaching out to help this family . ” friends and relatives handed over cash . a yoga instructor organized special classes , donating 100 per cent of the proceeds . a local painter auctioned off three pieces of art . kristy ’ s vet clinic set up $10 nail trims , with every penny going toward salaam peterborough ( the very first customer gave $100 instead ) . dentists offered their services free of charge . doctors , too . carla organized an auction at her house , where st . paul ’ s staff bid on each other ’ s services ( yard duty , for instance ) . she raised $1 , 400 . “ this has kind of renewed my faith in humanity , ” she says . “ people desperately , desperately want to help ; they just need the right outlet to contribute , ” says brad , phung ’ s husband . “ it ’ s been heartwarming to see the community rally behind us . ” and not only behind them . in addition to the 35 groups working with aspa , two dozen others are in the process of bringing syrian refugees to the peterborough region . by the end of 2016 , the city expects to be home to 350 , maybe more . “ i am not surprised at all , ” says serout omar , who owns a pizza parlour in town . “ peterborough is full of great people , i ’ m telling you . ” he would know . twenty years ago , a church group sponsored his family of iraqi kurds , who lived 10 years in a syrian refugee camp after fleeing saddam hussein ’ s chemical weapons . “ this is my home , ” says serout , 36 . “ i would never move . ” when he read about kristy ’ s group in a local newspaper , serout immediately reached out on facebook to offer help , including translating for the family once they arrive . his generosity allowed the members to check one more box on their very large to - do list . every sponsorship group must create a detailed settlement plan that meets the approval of their sah . where will the family live ? who will pick them up at the airport ? landline or cellphone ? salaam peterborough crafted an excel spreadsheet , with each line listing a different duty . apartment rental . school enrolment . social insurance numbers . neighbourhood tour . they were ready , or at least as ready as they could be . on nov . 12 , aspa received another update in her inbox : the woman and her kids had been interviewed by visa officers in beirut , and all ottawa needed was final confirmation that kristy ’ s group would be the sponsor . “ please go ahead and confirm , ” lise wrote back to aspa . “ yay ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! i am so excited ! ” the group still didn ’ t know any names . they also had no idea that the anonymous family was huddled inside their beirut apartment at that very moment , steps from a busy market where two isis bombers went to die . ‘i ’ ve seen firsthand the desperation that these people live in ’ when shazim khan first noticed the sirens blinking in the distance , he assumed it was a car crash . as he steered closer , he saw the fire hoses pointed at his peterborough mosque . “ it was devastating , ” he recalls . “ someone threw some kind of accelerant through the window , but we don ’ t know who it was . ” the nov . 14 arson made international headlines : a canadian mosque—masjid al - salaam , literally the “ peace mosque ” —had been firebombed , an apparent hate crime triggered by islamic state ’ s rampage in paris the night before . smoke engulfed the main floor , plastering walls with soot and ash . some of the mosque ’ s 100 worshippers had been mingling inside only an hour earlier , celebrating the birth of a baby . “ this is the only mosque in peterborough , ” says khan , originally from guyana , who has served as imam for eight years . “ we thought it would be a huge setback for the community , but it actually turned out to be the opposite . ” a local man with no link to the mosque launched an online crowd - funding campaign to cover the repair bill , and within 30 hours , donations topped $110 , 000 . among the many who rushed to give were members of salaam peterborough . “ i think the person or people who attacked the mosque unwittingly gave a huge boost to the movement to welcome syrian refugees—because so many in the community became so eager to prove that those people were not representative of us , ” says myra , the dance instructor . “ i hope they are reading this and notice that . ” imam shazim khan says sponsoring refugees is god ’ s workstill , the apparent trigger behind the mosque arson—the terrorist attacks in paris , which killed 130—raised legitimate questions about the new government ’ s refugee plan , specifically the timing . reports out of france said one of the isis attackers might have been a syrian who snuck into europe amid the flood of migrants . was canada doing enough to conduct security checks on these potential newcomers ? and why the rush ? why do all 25 , 000 need to arrive by the end of 2015 ? liberal public safety minister ralph goodale assured canadians that every last syrian would be properly screened before arriving , but prime minister justin trudeau himself would later concede that the horror in paris played a role in his decision to slow down the original pledge . ( instead of bringing in 25 , 000 refugees by the end of 2015 , the new plan is to fly them all here by the end of february . ) ‘the mosque means a lot to this community ’ a career police officer , dave mcnab is anything but naive . he has witnessed his fair share of depravity , and he admits the bloodshed in paris sparked some soul - searching . “ i don ’ t think anybody in this group isn ’ t scared about the terrorist attacks , but ultimately you have to do what is right , ” he says . “ i don ’ t think you could look at a picture of a needy child and not know what the right thing is . ” ( says trevor : “ this is a mother and three children , and i really don ’ t think they ’ re any danger to our society . ” ) dave is standing at his kitchen counter , chopping lamb for tonight ’ s kebabs . kristy is beside him , prepping a pan of baklava . it is nov . 22 , another sunday , and the rest of the group members are on their way over for a meeting / celebration . aspa is coming , too , bringing along the final bits of paperwork . once signed , the sponsorship will become official . “ we ’ re doing a middle eastern theme , ” kristy says . “ i ’ m so excited . ” the members arrive at the front door , one by one . as the living room fills and the volume grows , the scene looks like any random cocktail party . a newcomer would have no idea that some of these people didn ’ t know each other two months ago . “ it ’ s been amazing , ” phung says . “ you couldn ’ t have asked for a better of group of people . ” lise and rick arrive with some homemade hummus . “ i feel like i ’ ve been thinking about her and the kids every day since sept . 28 , ” lise says , when asked about the family . “ i wonder : ‘are they hungry ? are they cold ? are they scared ? do they know we ’ re here ? do they know that we ’ re thinking about them and that we ’ re waiting for them ? ’ ” kristy invited another special guest tonight : shazim khan . it ’ s been a week since the mosque was firebombed , and the repair work has barely begun . ( mosque officials would later announce that their insurance policy covered the reconstruction , and that every penny raised by the crowd - funding campaign was donated to local charities . ) “ we are different , ” the imam tells the group , the living room hushed . he is wearing a white islamic robe and a black skull cap . “ we have different religious beliefs , we practise differently , but i think we share a lot of common values . we all care for one another , and this is what makes us human beings . ” “ our prophet said : ‘one who helps an orphan or a widow is like a person who stands in prayer and never finishes , ’ ” khan continues . “ i want to say how grateful we are that we have people in our community who are willing to share in this very noble task . ” group members sign the final paperwork with aspa bouzinelos ( left ) and sister ruth hennessey ( right ) when the time comes to sign the papers , aspa puts the documents on the coffee table . some group members hold up their smartphones and press record . kristy and lise do the honours , scribbling their signatures on multiple pages . neither can contain her smile . among the documents—finally—is the mystery woman ’ s name : amal alkhalaf , age 41 . the eldest daughter is ansam , who had just turned 13 . ibrahim is the boy , age 10 . the youngest , eight years old , is dalya . her ninth birthday is a few weeks away . long before the world knew the name alan kurdi , scores of syrian migrants followed the same watery path from turkey to greece , gambling their very lives for asylum in europe . thousands more have set out since . ( on jan . 4 , the mediterranean claimed another 36 victims , including three children . ) yet despite the dominant images—refugees wearing life jackets , crammed into rubber boats—the vast majority of displaced syrians are not trying to reach britain or germany or sweden . they are in purgatory , spread out among syria ’ s immediate neighbours . across the southern border in jordan , the united nations refugee agency ( unhcr ) has registered close to 800 , 000 . to the north , 2 . 2 million live in turkey . and to the west , lebanon has absorbed 1 . 1 million , if not more . the crisis may be most glaring in lebanon , an already fractured state that ’ s barely twice the size of prince edward island . before the war next door , the population was about four million ; it is now above five million—all while the lebanese government continues to spiral into disarray . sectarian squabbling has left the country without a president for nearly 600 days , and basic civic services have ground to a halt . drive anywhere , and it won ’ t be long before you ’ ll see a mound of garbage bags tossed on a roadside . tragically , the same is true about syrian refugees . they are literally everywhere here : sleeping on street corners , inside overcrowded motel rooms , and underneath plastic tarps that fill hundreds of rural , ramshackle camps . but unlike jordan , for example—where one camp , zaatari , is home to nearly 80 , 000 syrian refugees—there is no such central hub in lebanon . in fact , fewer than 20 per cent of the refugees here live in a camp . maclean ’ s travelled to lebanon in the hope , however slim , of finding amal alkhalaf and her children . other than their names ( and their canadian file number : bvor 417 ) , the peterborough group had no other leads to share . no city . no phone number . not even a photograph . the whole assignment had the feel of saving private ryan . for nearly a week , nothing panned out . sources working for various aid agencies queried their databases but came up empty . one said he actually found dozens of amal alkhalafs in his system , way too many to narrow down . if nothing else , the hail mary hunt reinforced just how lucky this woman is : maclean ’ s was scouring the country for a syrian refugee already selected to come to canada , while crossing paths with thousands more who will never receive such a gift . in the end , it was michelle cameron , canada ’ s ambassador to lebanon , who pulled the right strings . maclean ’ s reached out to the embassy , explaining the basics of this article and asking whether someone could contact amal on our behalf . on dec . 2 , the answer arrived . “ we found her , ” cameron said . she had a cell number . amal was willing to meet , but physically reaching her was hardly routine . maclean ’ s needed permission from hezbollah ’ s central press office just to pass through the military checkpoints that surround bourj el - barajneh , and the magazine was specifically instructed not to film or photograph outside . only three weeks had passed since the isis suicide attacks , and residents remained leery of unfamiliar faces . ( though a largely shia municipality , bourj el - barajneh is home to some sunnis , including a growing number of syrian refugees , because rent is relatively cheap . ) as planned , amal is waiting on the corner , dalya by her side . the little girl is wearing jeans and a sweater , green and red . mother and daughter don ’ t linger long , turning down an alleyway that leads back to their latest home : a decrepit , two - room apartment . the older kids , ansam and ibrahim , are inside the first - floor unit , though not alone . one of amal ’ s sisters - in - law also lives here—with her four children . at night , all nine squish together on the living - room carpet , sleeping in a windowless space that resembles a cave . the apartment ’ s other room is a small kitchen with cracked , crumbling walls . its only saving grace is the running water . after two islamic state suicide bombers struck her beirut neighbourhood on nov . 12 , amal and the children stopped going outside “ it was so scary , ” amal says , recalling the thunder of the twin explosions . “ but thank god my children weren ’ t in the street at that time . ” she has not let them outside since . a petite woman , barely five feet tall , amal sits down on the living room floor , her back leaning against the front door . dalya is still close by . ibrahim is beside them , wearing a thin brown jacket and bare feet . ansam ’ s hijab is navy blue . though only 13 , ansam is mature beyond her years , a second mom to the other two . “ i would love to study , ” she says , holding back tears . “ my only dream is to study . ” originally from the syrian city of raqqa , amal married an iraqi , and their first two children were born in her husband ’ s home country . during the second gulf war , however , the family crossed back to syria , where dalya was born in 2006 . they eventually settled in homs—a city that would soon be under siege . north of damascus , homs endured some of the heaviest fighting in the early months of the syrian uprising , as assad ’ s forces tried , but failed , to quell anti - government protests in the city . in august 2011 , amal ’ s husband left home , supposedly in search of food . he never came back . “ i don ’ t know anything about what happened to him , ” she says . “ i don ’ t know where he is . ” after a week , amal says she had no choice but to flee , taking the kids to the eastern city of al - bukamal , where some of her relatives lived . for a while , the kids were able to attend school , including some english classes , but it wasn ’ t long before isis took control of the city . yet again , the family was pinned into a combat zone . “ i don ’ t like the kids to talk about it , ” amal says . “ i am trying to get them to forget what happened there . ” she was not allowed to venture outside without a veil over her face and a male relative at her side . night after night , the children were jolted awake by the sound of fighter jets screaming overhead . “ my kids would wake up even if it was only raining , ” amal says . “ everything was terrible . isis was all around us . ” by september 2014 , the foursome was on the run again , inside a bus bound for the lebanese border . the kids haven ’ t seen a classroom for nearly two years . their mom has never been to school . not for one day . described as a “ homemaker ” in her canadian paperwork , amal earns zero income in lebanon , and her family survives largely on the kindness of others , including some siblings who live nearby . until recently , she and the kids lived with one of her sisters , but they were evicted after failing to pay the monthly rent ( 250 , 000 lebanese dollars , or about us$170 ) . “ i try my best every day to not let the children go to bed without food , ” amal says . “ but sometimes . . . ” the old cellphone she has was a gift from a friend , a hand - me - down . the screen was already shattered when she got it . her lifeline to the outside world ( especially the unhcr ) , amal pays us$10 a month to keep it on . although millions of syrians have registered with the un refugee agency , only a meagre fraction will be resettled in the west . when countries like canada do decide to offer up space , the unhcr recommends the most vulnerable , desperate cases : refugees with severe health problems . torture victims . poor , single mothers like amal alkhalaf . it was way back in december 2014—nine months before alan kurdi drowned , and when stephen harper was still prime minister—when she received the cellphone call that would change their lives . it was the embassy , informing her that canada was considering them for resettlement . “ i can ’ t describe how happy i was , ” she says . “ but at the same time i was sad because i didn ’ t know how long i would have to wait . one year ? two years ? god knows . ” eleven months , it turned out . the embassy called back in early november 2015 ( only a couple of weeks before the suicide bombings ) to invite her for an interview . “ the children talk about canada a lot , ” amal says . “ ‘are we going to have our own house ? is there no war ? are we going to have an established life ? ’ that is their dream . ” asked where she ’ d like to live , amal is quick to respond . “ i will stay at the canadian border , ” she says . “ the most important thing is that i reach canada . if they told me now to go the airport , i would grab my children and go to the airport . ” until today , amal has no idea that private citizens are working so hard on her behalf . she has never heard of the “ blended ” sponsorship program , and peterborough may as well be mars . when maclean ’ s explains where she ’ s going and how she ’ ll get there , amal seems overwhelmed , as if it can ’ t possibly be true . “ i want to thank them one and two and three and four and five times , as much as i can , ” she smiles , placing a hand over her heart . “ they are going to take me out of this swamp and i will see the world again , and they will offer education for my kids . ” if maclean ’ s found this woman , the peterborough group asked the reporter to pass along two things : an envelope containing some money , and a small token of their friendship and commitment—four miniature pins depicting the canadian flag , one for each of them . amal unwraps the tissue paper and picks up one of the red and white flags , turning it in her fingertips . “ this is like a trophy for me , ” she says , looking up . “ it is an honour to get the flag . i don ’ t know how i can express my thanks . i don ’ t know how i can express my feelings . ” the children lean in to see the gifts . “ i am going to put this in my heart , ” amal continues . “ i am proud . ” before saying goodbye , the woman asks maclean ’ s to deliver something of hers to the group : her cell number . “ i hope god gives me the time to meet them , ” she says . six days later , dec . 9 , the peterborough sponsors have a meeting scheduled , the perfect chance for a first phone call with amal . they ask serout , their new volunteer translator , to contact her in advance and ask if 7 p . m . works . of course , she says . it will be 2 a . m . in beirut , but she ’ s happy to huddle in her kitchen while everyone else is asleep . by now , salaam peterborough has another co - sponsor , its fourteenth . an environmental sciences professor at trent university , tom whillans dropped in at the new canadians centre the other day , hoping to find information about a group he could join . “ it ’ s an extremely important issue , ” he says . “ and it ’ s not just about donating money to a cause . the personal contact is really , really important . ” he ’ s known rick and lise casually for many years ( tom helps run a music festival rick plays in ) and when he noticed their names on a list , he knew where to go . tom knocked on their door . when they weren ’ t home , he came back another time . “ that is the peterborough we know , ” says lise , herself a trent graduate . “ that may sound sappy , but there are so many people like that in this community . ” ‘who is doing this for me ? ’ amal asked the group membersas 7 o ’ clock approaches , they gather in rick and lise ’ s kitchen . most of the group is here , huddled around the same island where lise and stephanie prepped all those slow - cooker recipes three months ago . rick is holding claire , the couple ’ s three - year - old . serout is sitting on a stool in the middle of the pack , his cell on speakerphone . “ allo , ” amal answers . for weeks , these men and women have thought of little else than this person on the other end of the phone . to suddenly hear her voice is almost a relief . kristy takes a deep breath , holding back tears . like lise and carla , myra can ’ t stop smiling . phung places a hand over her mouth . “ hello from canada , ” they say in unison , followed by “ marhaba , ” arabic for hello . “ marhaba , ” amal answers . everyone laughs . speaking through serout , amal thanks the strangers for their money and their kindness . but even with the language barrier , the group can sense her desperation . she doesn ’ t sound anywhere near as optimistic as she did just a few days ago , when maclean ’ s met her in lebanon . “ my situation is really bad , ” she says , beginning to cry . serout tries to reassure her . “ be patient , be strong , ” he says . “ everything is going to be ok . ” “ inshallah , ” she says . god willing . amal is especially worried about her family ’ s medical tests , the final step before boarding an airplane . it ’ s been more than a month since her interview with a canadian visa officer , yet she ’ s heard nothing about a doctor ’ s appointment . “ you don ’ t know how i live here , ” she tells the group . “ it ’ s like a grave . ” serout asks amal if she needs the sponsors to prepare anything specific for her arrival . “ nothing , nothing , ” she says . “ i only want to get out of here . i want my kids to see a new life and i want them to forget this sad life they have been in . just one hour here is too long . ” near the end of the call , amal asks a question : “ who is doing this for me ? ” a collection of families , serout replies , explaining how the sponsorship group will cover her family ’ s first year of expenses in canada . “ they don ’ t care if you are a muslim or not a muslim , ” he says . “ at last , we are humanity , ” amal answers . “ there is no black or white . ” as wonderful as it is to finally hear amal ’ s voice , the phone call is unexpectedly deflating . the group assumed all the hurdles had been cleared , including the medicals . listening to her break down only sharpens their resolve to get the family to canada . the next morning , dec . 10 , lise fires off an email to aspa ’ s main contact in immigration , asking about the medicals , but hears nothing back . later that evening , justin trudeau is at pearson international airport , welcoming the first planeload of syrian refugees to touch down . “ i was awake in the middle of the night , so i got up , ” lise says . “ carla had mentioned to me that there is some kind of website where you can check the status of your application , and sure enough , up pops this notice that says the government has been waiting for amal to take her medical since oct . 7 . ” she messages serout , who phones amal again . somehow , the oct . 7 notice never reached her . a few phone calls later , and the exams are booked . “ if we hadn ’ t been able to talk to her , we wouldn ’ t have had a clue that any of this was going on , ” lise says . “ she would still be sitting there . ” the news arrives on christmas afternoon , via serout . amal and the children have been told to be at beirut ’ s airport on dec . 28 , bright and early—three months to the day after being matched with the people from peterborough . “ get ready for your christmas gift , ” lise writes to the others on facebook . “ they are coming on the 29th ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ” when the 28th arrives , amal and the kids board a flight to jordan , their first ever ride on an airplane . ( “ i was really , really scared , ” she would later say . ) from there , the plan is to take a chartered jet directly to pearson , but it ’ s delayed . by the time they finally board , they ’ re 15 hours behind schedule—pushing back their arrival by one day , to dec . 30 . in peterborough , meanwhile , the sponsors have heard nothing official from ottawa . if amal wasn ’ t communicating with serout , the group would have no clue the flight was delayed . thanks to aspa , lise has a number for an airport employee who does know one thing : after landing , syrian refugees are being bused to a nearby hotel . the pickup crew , 90 minutes away , takes a calculated gamble : better to wait at that hotel than in peterborough , assuming amal will show up at some point . members of the sponsorship group meet the children for the first time at an airport hotelthey steer into the parking lot just before 5 : 30 p . m . on dec . 30 , split between two passenger vans : stephanie , lise , paulette , lee - anne , serout and tom ( the trent prof , not the retired engineer ) . a friend of dave ’ s , who owns a shuttle company , offered the vans ( and the two drivers ) as a donation . dave and kristy are not here tonight . they had booked a christmas trip long ago , and couldn ’ t cancel . although her emotions are mixed , kristy is thrilled beyond words that her facebook post has led to this moment . “ i love that we are such a team , ” she says . “ i think we ’ ll look back in 10 or 15 years , and this will be a very positive chapter in canada ’ s story , ” her husband adds . the group members mingle in the hotel lobby , watching as a busload of refugees , utterly exhausted , walk through the front entrance . “ welcome to canada , ” lee - anne says , hugging one woman . the retired major is holding a small canadian flag . her sister has a bouquet of flowers , red and white . as 6 p . m . approaches , another bus pulls up . serout sees them first . “ they ’ re here ! ” he yells . “ they ’ re here ! ” paulette repeats , rushing outside . “ oh my gosh , ” says stephanie , following lise and lee - anne to the door . amal flashes a wide smile as paulette wraps her arms around her shoulders , then reaches for the children , one by one . lee - anne is right behind her , amal ’ s next hug . she is wearing the same checkered hijab as she did that day in bourj el - barajneh—just 27 days ago . after two days of travel , the family finally arrives in peterborough , excited but exhausted “ are you dalya ? ” stephanie asks , smiling at the little girl . she turned nine on dec . 20 . in between hugs , lise tries not to cry . jingle bell rock is playing on the loudspeakers . tom and serout collect the family ’ s suitcases from under the bus as everyone heads to the lobby . ottawa has also provided care packages , giving each child a new winter jacket , boots , gloves and a toque . serout rips off the tag of dalya ’ s pink coat and helps her put it on . beside her , ibrahim waves lee - anne ’ s canadian flag . pinned to ansam ’ s jacket is the maple leaf the group sent to her in lebanon , via maclean ’ s . “ it is like a dream , ” amal says , now holding the bouquet of flowers . “ i am so happy just to be here safe . ” ‘i didn ’ t feel like a stranger at all . i felt at home . it ’ s like i knew these people a long time ago . ’ the three children climb into the back row of one of the vans while serout and amal take the two middle seats . a few minutes later , the caravan is merging onto highway 401 , heading east amid a sea of headlights . “ are we going to live here forever ? ” dalya asks . “ yes , ” serout answers . nineteen years ago , a young maryam monsef made a similar nighttime drive to peterborough . she didn ’ t speak english , and she had yet to meet sister ruth . today , monsef is a federal cabinet minister . “ that makes me feel like my kids have a good future , ” amal says , looking at the heavy traffic out her window . “ i can see it and i can feel it . the most important thing for me is that everybody is a human being and everybody gets respected and treated the same way . it doesn ’ t matter what religion or colour you are . ” it was heartbreaking , amal says , to leave her relatives—including the sister - in - law and kids who shared her apartment—but she hopes to one day help them get here , too . “ from what i ’ ve seen so far , canada is going to be even better than my imagination , ” she continues . “ i ’ m not asking for much . i just want my kids to be safe , to go to school , to have food . that is all i need . ” in the other van , lee - anne passes around some christmas chocolates . in between bites , she tells the others that what they just accomplished is as gratifying as anything she did in afghanistan . “ it is absolutely equivalent , without a doubt , ” she says . “ if we can sit here in this vehicle , in this country , and save somebody ’ s life , that is just as good as me being three oceans away saving somebody ’ s life . ” in the front seat , professor tom says amal ’ s family has just won the equivalent of a lottery . “ you also feel like it ’ s a lottery for us—that we were lucky enough to be born here , ” he says . “ we didn ’ t do anything to earn that . ” lee - anne tucks ibrahim into bed as dalya watches . in lebanon , the family slept on a floor . it is almost 9 : 30 p . m . when the vans steer into the driveway . the children are fast asleep , oblivious to the christmas lights hanging from some of the houses . amal is wearing a pair of ballet - style flats , no match for the snow she steps in as she exits the vehicle . phung , standing in the dark driveway , gives her a hug . when the kids emerge , drowsy and dazed , she squeezes them , too . she can ’ t help but wonder what her own mother was thinking all those decades ago . the group managed to secure a granny flat for the family , a temporary home until they find something more permanent . it could not be more inviting . the fridge is overflowing . a cake on the kitchen table says : “ welcome to canada . ” pieces of children ’ s artwork are hanging everywhere . “ we are so glad you are here , ” one says . “ you are loved , ” reads another . “ there is lots and lots of food , ” lise says . “ i don ’ t know how to thank you , ” says amal , still smiling . “ we are just very glad that you are here , ” lise replies . the children are so tired that they ’ re falling asleep sitting up , their jackets still zipped . phung leads ibrahim to the bedroom and puts him under the covers , while paulette and lee - anne show amal how to use the pull - out couch . the others start lacing up their shoes , knowing the family needs some space . “ i didn ’ t realize this was going to happen , ” amal says , thanking them one more time . “ this is more than enough . ” until their first morning in canada , the children had never touched snowthe next morning is new year ’ s eve . when serout stops by for a visit , arriving a few minutes after 9 o ’ clock , he doesn ’ t need to knock . everyone inside is wide awake . dalya was up at 6 a . m . , staring out the large bay window that overlooks the backyard . “ when i woke up , i felt i was in a dream , ” amal says . “ i told ibrahim to come to see the snow but he didn ’ t believe me . he thought i was making a joke . ” four weeks ago , this family woke up on the floor of that windowless living room in lebanon , too afraid to even venture outside . today , ibrahim is immersed in a lego set , almost finished piecing it together . a cartoon , super why , fills the flat - screen television that sits atop an electric fireplace . ansam is on the couch , reading about each of her new sponsors . ( the group prepared information sheets with photos and brief biographies , in english and arabic . ) dalya is still perched on the windowsill , gazing out . the group left behind two new ipads on the kitchen counter , with an itunes gift card to match . amal says there ’ s another gift card , too , pointing to the name on serout ’ s coffee cup ( tim hortons ) . she will learn . “ i cannot describe the life here compared to where i was , ” she says . “ it ’ s like from hell to heaven . ” not every day will be so euphoric . adjusting to the pace and culture of a new country is an overwhelming journey , even for the most grateful refugee , and as the weeks go by , amal and her children will no doubt endure some darker emotions than they feel right now . serout remembers his own family ’ s experience ; at one point , they considered returning to their tent in syria because they found it so hard to acclimatize to canada . “ we were going crazy , to be honest , ” he says . ‘canada is going to be even better than my imagination . i want my kids to be safe , to go to school ’ real life lies ahead . dentist appointments . health care applications . first day of school . amal has never learned to read or write , and as excited as she is to tackle english ( “ to learn canadian , ” as she says ) , the road will be long and challenging . even this gorgeous granny flat—full of bright sunlight and fresh paint and a shiny bathroom—is temporary . with the group ’ s help , amal must start looking for a place she can afford once the sponsorship support runs dry next year . a job ? that ’ s listed on the resettlement plan , too . near the door , the kids start zipping up their jackets and sliding on their boots . amal tugs on dalya ’ s knit hat , ensuring it covers her ears . “ go play as much as you want because we are going to be here one week and then they are going to send us back , ” amal jokes . “ they ’ re not going to send us back ! ” her daughter replies . a wooden deck leads to a large backyard , where a motorboat is covered with a plastic tarp . ansam ’ s boots crunch through a thin layer of icy snow , a sound as canadian as any . “ only in pictures , ” she says , when asked if she has ever seen snow before . standing on the deck , amal watches as a snowball fight ensues . she is still digesting the events of last night , strangers running to hug her . “ i didn ’ t feel like a stranger at all , ” she says . “ i basically felt at home . it ’ s like i knew these people a long time ago . ” paulette the french teacher pulls into the driveway . “ hello , hello , ” she says . “ you look so nice in your new coats ! ” all three kids get another hug . carrying a jug of road salt , paulette immediately starts sprinkling the deck . “ i noticed it was slippery last night , ” she says . amal watches , not quite sure what to think . paulette ’ s first job today is to take the family to the mall so they can buy a new cellphone . amal ’ s old one—the hand - me - down with the shattered screen—is long gone . “ i threw it in the garbage at the airport , ” she smiles . reporter : michael friscolantieditor : dianna symonds and alison unclesdirector of photography : liz sullivanart director : stephen gregorydigital production editor : amanda shendrukvideo producer : kayla chobotiuk , michael friscolanti , and liz sullivanphotographers : cole garside and sam tarlingvideographers : afp , getty , cole garside and sam tarlingvideo editor : kayla chobotiukpublished : january 13 , 2016
__label__no_relevant immigrants are wanted in atlantic canada ! is it the right fit for you ? it was september 2013 , when 18 - year - old venezuelan - born adriana rivas first set foot in canada to study at st . thomas university in fredericton , new brunswick to begin her bachelor ’ s degree in economics and international relations . her choice of university was determined at a university fair she attended back home . “ since this was my first time moving away from home , i was looking for a smaller city , ” says rivas . “ i did not want to feel lost in the crowd . i wanted to make sure that i was moving to a community that would welcome me with open arms , a place that would make it easier for me to adapt to a new culture , to start a new chapter in my life that would give me a sense of belonging . ” she found that community in atlantic canada . and rivas is part of a growing number of immigrants and refugees who are calling the atlantic region home , from new brunswick to nova scotia to prince edward island to newfoundland and labrador , enjoying its maritime lifestyle , strong celtic culture and rugged coastlines complete with scenic lighthouses and the odd iceberg . yet the numbers are not quite there yet . provincial governments in the region are calling for more newcomers . the 2016 census report shows an overall decline in the population of the region , with some areas portraying negative growth . in 2014 , the number of deaths exceeded the number of births in nova scotia , newfoundland and new brunswick , and it didn ’ t have sufficient immigration to offset that negative trend . “ it ’ s staring us in the face again that immigration is a pretty fundamental component of maintaining a positive population growth , ” said finn poschmann , president of the atlantic provinces economic council , to the globe and mail in february . attracting immigrants eastwarddr . chedly belkhodja , director of the atlantic metropolis centre and principal and professor , school of community and public affairs at concordia university , couldn ’ t agree more . “ in recent years , we ’ ve seen the atlantic canada region expressing challenges in the areas of demography and changing population , ” he says . “ initially , there was never really a strategy to counter that , much of the youth population migrated to central canada or even the west . however , all of that changed in the late 1990s , early 2000s because the governments came to realize it was necessary to have different policies and strategies around immigration . despite the negative population growth , some have questioned the need for more people because of the region ’ s typically slower economy , with a higher unemployment rate than the rest of canada . but employers in the region have struggled to fill labour gaps , often looking to hire from abroad , according to poschmann . the atlantic provinces ’ provincial nominee programs ( pnps ) have been the main tool used to welcome new permanent residents , but , given the program caps the number of immigrants allowed , provincial leaders started calling on the federal government to help them do more to attract more immigrants to the region . “ the provincial nominee programs really helped with changing the face of immigration . as a result , today we have a more diversified immigrant population in the region , ” says belkhodja , whose primary research focuses around immigration policies and mobility of migrants in the case of less common destinations as well as the processes of integration and inclusion . “ more recently , there has been collaborative effort between the four provinces in terms of attracting immigrants to the atlantic region . ” a recent collaborative effort between the four provinces and the federal government is the three - year , employer - driven atlantic immigration pilot program that allows for the faster processing of permanent residency applications for immigrants wanting to settle in the region , on top of the pnp . immigrants wishing to migrate through that program need to receive a job offer from an employer in the region and work with the province to receive a letter of endorsement . aimed to fill labour gaps , there are three different programs under the program , including options for intermediate skilled workers , high - skilled workers and international graduates . “ this is a big opportunity for our province , ” says nova scotia immigration minister lena metlege diab , who was born in the province to immigrant parents . “ the atlantic immigration pilot is another tool employers can use to fill their labour gaps as they work to grow their businesses and the provincial economy . ” the program was officially launched in march with a target of bringing in 2 , 000 newcomers to the region in 2017 . it has started off slowly , with only about 250 newcomers recruited by employers as of early july . living atlantic stylewhy has it been so difficult to attract newcomers to the picturesque , easternmost provinces of canada ? immigrants have traditionally chosen to move to bigger cities like toronto , vancouver and montreal , which tend to offer more economic opportunity , more diversity and a more urban lifestyle . but along with those come more competition , more density and higher housing prices . while certain types of employment might be harder to find in the atlantic , if you can find work that suits your skills or start up your own business , you will reap the rewards of the atlantic lifestyle . the atlantic is really suited for people who don ’ t just love their work , they also love their life . jennifer gillivan , president and ceo of the iwk foundation , the fundraising and outreach partner of the iwk health centre , which provides care to women , children , youth and families in the maritimes , says it was this quality about the region that attracted her toward it . “ i love the people , ” says irish - born gillivan , who moved to halifax , nova scotia , in 1993 after having lived in several canadian cities . “ people in the region say hello , strike up a conversation . it ’ s a collaborative kind of space . and the region is very affordable for anyone who wants to live in canada . ” gillivan , who is an rbc top 25 canadian immigrant of 2017 , adds , “ and of course , the sky is the limit for an entrepreneur . we have local designers from halifax who are now opening stores in toronto . there are many examples of global companies that were born in the region . ” gillivan attributes all this creative success to the fantastic lifestyle that is provided by the region to its residents . “ especially young families love it here . there is so much nature , hiking and fishing , and yet you ’ re still not far away from the pleasures of the city . we have a symphony and a theatre and all kinds of music and arts , ” she says , adding , “ of course , each province is its own and very different . ” gillivan , who was named halifax business person of the year 2017 , says a big part of her success in the region is getting involved in the community . “ there are a lot of old - fashioned values , but there are lots of opportunities as well , especially if you choose to volunteer to integrate into the local community . that is one excellent way for newcomers to acquire new skills , make connections and find opportunities . ” ( catch gillivan speak at the halifax career , education and settlement immigrant fair on sept . 8 , 2017 ! ) getting involved in the community “ social inclusion is a big part of your existence in atlantic canada , ” says chinese - born li yuan ma , a commercial account manager with rbc in prince edward island . “ when you go to a new country , language and social inclusion are the top two factors that help you decide where to stay . ” ma fell in love with prince edward island on a holiday six years ago and decided to make it home . she says she has never regretted that decision . the community in prince edward island has always made her feel part of a bigger family . “ i love everything about this place . prince edward island has a very good standard of living , a very good health care system , natural beauty , different parks , different beaches , fresh seafood , the list is endless . it is also really safe to live here , has a great education system and great social programs . ” another thing ma loves about the region is the multicultural society . “ i am a huge fan of that as well as the diversecity multicultural street festival , the annual multicultural street festival that is celebrated by including both islanders and newcomers in the festivities . ” quality of life in atlantic canada “ one of the greatest advantages of atlantic canada is its vibrant culture , especially in new brunswick , ” adds rivas , who is currently employed with ignite fredericton , the city ’ s economic development agency . in her role as a population growth specialist , she helps co - ordinate the city ’ s local immigration partnership initiative . “ we celebrate and welcome cultures from all around the world , ” she says . “ many of the cities throughout atlantic canada have multicultural festivals in the summer months , and have farmers markets where international food can easily be showcased and offered to the community . ” rivas states that one of the biggest benefits of calling atlantic canada home is the quality of life that comes with it . “ people do take the time to enjoy family and leisure activities after work , whether they decide to go camping , hiking , kayaking or simply spending a weekend at the bay of fundy . and local employers support family wellness and a proper work - life balance . ” so what advice does she have for immigrants who might be considering the atlantic as a potential destination ? “ adapting to a new culture will always have its ups and downs . it is simply part of the immigration journey that newcomers go through . the important thing to keep in mind is that communities across atlantic canada have support systems in place for newcomers to receive assistance and guidance when they are going through those situations , ” says rivas . “ whether they need help with learning one of the official languages , information about the school systems or simply have questions about opening their own business , there is a support system available . ” she further recommends being open to meeting new people and networking with the community . “ it is a fresh start , the more people that you meet and interact with , the more enjoyable and memorable will your journey be , ” says rivas . atlantic canada factsatlantic canada includes four provinces : nova scotia , new brunswick , prince edward island and newfoundland and labrador . often called the maritimes , this title only refers to three of the four provinces , excluding newfoundland and labrador . more than 2 . 3 million people call atlantic canada home , with nearly one million in nova scotia , and less than 150 , 000 in p . e . i . atlantic canada is a culturally distinct region of canada , with the original founding cultures of celtic , english and french remaining strong and vibrant today . the region has one of the most variable climates in the country . in winter , temperatures can vary greatly , due to a mix of arctic and maritime air . be ready for snow in winter , and fog in spring . but summer is warm , particularly in july , with an average temperature of 16 to 18 degrees celsius . the economy is a mix of traditional resource - based industries such as fishing , farming , mining and forestry , plus it has a strong energy sector , and opportunities in technology , life sciences , aviation , construction , manufacturing and knowledge - based jobs . the region has 17 universities , including prestigious dalhousie university and st . francis xavier university , and a variety of colleges . immigrate to atlantic canadalooking to immigrate to atlantic canada ? here are links to each province ’ s immigration information . new brunswick : www . welcomenb . canova scotia : www . novascotiaimmigration . com / atlantic - immigration - pilotprince edward island : www . immigratepei . canewfoundland and labrador : www . nlimmigration . ca
__label__no_relevant in canada , a metoo reckoning is still leaving marginalized communities behind bloc québécois leader yves - françois blanchet told reporters he “ unequivocally denies ” allegations that he sexually assaulted a woman in the 1990s . photo by justin tang / the canadian pressthe first image on each post is a warning : here is a detailed account of sexual assault , or rape , or abuse , or coercion , or any other of the myriad forms that sexual violence can take . there are dozens of posts—and more go up every day . these often harrowing , mainly anonymous testimonials have appeared on instagram accounts across quebec over the past several weeks , as a groundswell of anger and frustration has erupted over a lack of justice and support for survivors of sexual violence in the province , and pushed hundreds of people into the streets of montreal and quebec city on july 19 to demand action . the posts have also led to backlash , as some of quebec ’ s most well - known public figures , from tattoo artists , actors , musicians , and artists , to politicians and the heads of major companies , have been accused of inappropriate behaviour . quebec actress maripier morin publicly apologized after singer - songwriter safia nolin said morin bit her on the thigh and sexually harassed her in a montreal bar . singer kevin parent , maybe watson , a member of quebec hip hop group alaclair ensemble , and simple plan bassist david desrosiers all apologized after sexual misconduct accusations surfaced . bloc québécois leader yves - françois blanchet told reporters he “ unequivocally denies ” allegations that he sexually assaulted a woman in the 1990s , when he worked as quebec singer eric lapointe ’ s manager . several top executives at montreal video game company ubisoft have also resigned after allegations of sexual harassment and a toxic workplace . even though many sexual violence survivors are speaking out publicly , it remains especially difficult for survivors from marginalized communities to have their voices heard . tarah paul , a project manager at west island calacs , an organization just west of montreal that works to prevent sexual assault , said all sexual assault survivors struggle to be believed , but it is even harder for black , indigenous , and other women of colour , as well as for people with disabilities and members of the lgbtq community , to be taken seriously . “ they tend to be hyper - sexualized , stereotyped , and sometimes ( people ) tend to question if what they say is true , ” she said , adding that even if they are believed , they often don ' t have access to help that is inclusive or safe . “ as community organizers and organizations we should listen and be ready to adapt our services and be more open to their realities , ” paul said . jessica quijano , coordinator of the iskweu project at the native women ’ s shelter of montreal , said for some sexual assault survivors , including the indigenous women she works with who are homeless , calling the police often is not an option . “ if you ’ re someone who ’ s marginalized or living on the street , calling the police for your protection isn ’ t something you do . ” montreal police have been accused of racially profiling and harassing indigenous women , while indigenous women in val d ’ or , 500 kilometres north of montreal , came forward in 2015 to decry abuse at the hands of provincial police officers over many years . those allegations led to a provincial inquiry that concluded last year that first nations and inuit are subjected to “ systemic discrimination ” in quebec ’ s public services . “ if you ’ re someone who ’ s marginalized or living on the street , calling the police for your protection isn ’ t something you do—especially if they ’ re often criminalizing you , ” quijano told vice in an interview . the native women ’ s shelter is one of several organizations in montreal that has called for the city to cut its police budget by 50 percent and reinvest that money into community programs , including ones to stop sexual violence . quijano said boosting access to housing and education and providing culturally appropriate trauma services would help address the problem , as would implementing the recommendations of the national inquiry into missing and murdered indigenous women and girls . “ if we put those things into action , we would really see a drastic reduction in not only sexual assaults , but women going missing , being murdered , suicide , ” quijano said . “ it ’ s all interlinked . ” marlihan lopez , coordinator at the simone de beauvoir institute at concordia university , said seeing survivors of sexual violence break their silence on social media right now highlights the failures of the justice system . “ it just demonstrates the fatigue and the frustration with the systems that are offered to us … ( that ) do not respond to the needs or the realities of survivors of sexual violence , ” she told vice news . lopez said many survivors still do not have adequate access to services in quebec , while much of what is available is not tailored to and excludes black , indigenous or trans communities . she said she welcomed vancouver ’ s decision last year , for example , to cut funding to a rape crisis centre that would not accept trans people . “ we need to see more of this , ” lopez said . “ they ’ re receiving money and there ’ s no reason why there should be communities that are excluded by their services . ” she also pointed to the fact that she and other community organizers have spent years advocating for more support for sexual assault survivors in montreal north , but they are still waiting . the neighbourhood has a large racialized and immigrant population—over two - thirds of its 84 , 000 - plus residents in 2016 were born outside of canada or had at least one parent who was—and one in six residents there in 2015 made less than $20 , 000 a year . the government needs to invest in programs “ by and for these communities , ” said lopez , and organizations that work on issues of sexual violence also need to be held accountable if marginalized people are excluded from their services . “ we ’ re inviting survivors to disclose , we ’ re inviting survivors to break ( their ) silence , but afterwards , what are we offering survivors in terms of resources and services ? ” she said . “ we need to move forward and ensure that we ’ re addressing this issue in a systemic manner and also holding space for survivors and offering them a path for healing . ” 
__label__no_relevant electioneering aside , it ' s time to alter the political dna in n . l . columnist prajwala dixit says political parties need to step up their recruitment game to improve the diversity of candidates in the upcoming election . ( mark cumby / cbc ) guess what time of the year it is ? no , not spring . and , thank goodness , it ' s not winter . it is , of course , election time . within the next few days , premier dwight ball is expected to tell us when we ' re going to vote . we ' ve been told to get ready for a spring election . however , we ' ve already been surrounded by an unofficial campaign . on tuesday morning , i woke up to news that the parties were already in the field , filling the roster of potential mhas for the next few years . expectantly and with anticipation , i perused this list — only to be disheartened , not only as a woman but also as a melanin - rich individual . of the 38 confirmed candidates in a story that cbc published on tuesday , only seven are women — that ' s not even 20 per cent . there were no candidates — yet , anyway — that could be described as a person of colour , although there is an indigenous presence . something significant is missingthis speaks to a need to change the political narrative that ensconces newfoundland and labrador . why ? it boils down to two main reasons — policy and philosophy . multiculturalism isn ' t new to newfoundland and labrador . the plethora of indigenous cultures present in this province is testimony to that fact . there are 40 seats in the house of assembly . many political observers are expecting an election to be called in the spring . ( cbc ) in addition , the francophone culture adds its colours to the beautiful multicultural landscape of the province . further , n . l . has been home to chinese , lebanese and jewish immigrants who arrived in the late 19th century , more than a hundred years ago . currently , 15 , 755 immigrants coming from different parts of the globe reside in this province . however , the roster of candidates fails to reflect the breadth of this diversity . that has a direct bearing on how we are governed . policies – implemented through a set of procedures — shape and inform the blueprint of the culture , values , decisions and actions that any governance stands for . from our grassroot organizations to the highest echelons in this province , policies play a vital role in constructing a narrative that influences the present and foretells the future . who ' s not in high office ? today ' s climate , where our policies and procedures have an ethnocentric view attempting to be " inclusive " to anything that isn ' t the prescribed norm , is a result of the lack of diverse perspectives in the highest offices in our province . for transformative policy - making to take place , the table ( around which decisions of today that affect tomorrow are made ) needs to have a wide range of voices . however , a word of caution : having diverse perspectives is only the first step . to avoid tokenism , it is imperative to understand that diversity is merely the ticket to a table and inclusion the voice at that table . pluralism is the active engagement of the plethora of voices around that table and can be achieved by providing equitable opportunities to those at the table and by recognizing their contributions . policy aside , philosophically , seeing persons of colour — i prefer the phrase " melanin - rich " — in elected office sets a precedent for individuals who identify with that demographic , empowering them to , hopefully , participate actively in politics . for the mainstream culture , it creates an opportunity to view a demographic differently ( perhaps even shattering any stereotypes along the way ) . barriers are systemiclast week , the gender and politics laboratory at the department of political science at memorial university held a path - breaking conference called gauging women ' s presence in municipal politics : newfoundland and labrador . interesting discussion aside , it provided an insight into the makings of a political figure in our province . focusing on community development and finding a mentor were pointed out to be major plusses while navigating a political career . but for melanin - rich demographics ( especially immigrants ) , this poses to be a problem to be actively engaged in politics . to avoid tokenism , it is imperative to understand that diversity is merely the ticket to a table and inclusion the voice at that table - sourcefor many , in addition to financial limitations required to run a successful campaign , the heavy reliance on informal social networks to find funding and mentoring coupled with the loss of a social network and language barriers only exacerbate the impediments to a long , winding political path . inherent and systemic biases and prejudice make this journey more arduous and cumbersome , eventually , influencing who occupies a seat in the house of assembly . specifically , for immigrants , the transition to citizenship is a time - consuming and mentally and economically stressful process . without citizenship , an individual cannot run for any elected office ( and hence , cannot constructively effect change ) . easing ways to transition from a worker / student / refugee to a citizen – not only by time , but also through cost – would , possibly , catalyze the engagement of these new voices . immigrants are eager to share their wealth of knowledge and diverse perspectives in the political sphere . unsure who ' d fit the bill ? just start by asking – ask an immigrant , a melanin - rich individual you know if they ' d run for office . you ' d be surprised to find how much they ' re willing to contribute and serve the place they lovingly call home . the political dna of newfoundland and labrador needs altering , and it is only possible if we pay heed to the voices that are , perhaps , seldom heard or seen . what would make prajwala dixit smile ? a more diverse set of politicians on the other side of the wall at confederation building : that is , the house of assembly . ( mark cumby / cbc ) read more articles from cbc newfoundland and labrador
__label__no_relevant canada to lead world in using immigration to sustain population growth : report canada is going to shore up its economy in the coming decades by leading the world in attracting more immigrants than it exports emigrants for the size of its population than any other country on earth , forecasts a new study . in the study , published in the lancet , a highly - respected medical journal , experts looked at current trends in mortality and fertility rates and modeled likely scenarios for the future of immigration and population growth for 195 countries . their conclusion ? the ongoing trend towards more education for girls and women and easier access to contraception around the world is going to accelerate the decline in fertility rates and slow population growth . by the year 2064 , the study ’ s authors expect the world ’ s population will peak at 9 . 73 billion . then , it will slide back down to 8 . 79 billion in a little more than three decades . by the year 2100 , it ’ s expected the planet will have seen a population drop of 940 million , almost twice as many people as currently live in all of north america , including the united states , canada and mexico , from its peak population figure . read morerecord canada population growth dominated by immigrationimmigration drives nova scotia population to all - time highannual immigration of 300 , 000 leads to largest canadian population boost since 1957canada ’ s own population is expected to mushroom to almost 44 . 1 million people with a fertility rate of 1 . 58 children per woman by the year 2100 but , under an alternative scenario put forth by the study , could be even lower than today ’ s current population of about 37 . 6 million people . under that sustainable development goal model , which would see canada fully adopt the policies set out in the united nations ’ family planning and the 2030 agenda for sustainable development data booklet , the canadian population in 2100 could be only 37 . 1 million and the fertility rate could be a paltry 1 . 37 . that , the experts say , would have serious repercussions for not only canada but also all the other economies of the world . policy options “ a sustained ( total fertility rate ) lower than the replacement level in many countries , including china and india , would have economic , social , environmental , and geopolitical consequences , ” they state . “ policy options to adapt to continued low fertility , while sustaining and enhancing female reproductive health , will be crucial in the years to come . ” enter immigration . the study ’ s authors tout liberal immigration policies that already exist in countries like canada as being a ready solution to the economic hardships that would otherwise be caused by a declining population . “ for high - income countries with fertility rates lower than the replacement level , the most immediate solution is liberal immigration policies . among high - income countries , canada , australia , new zealand , and the ( united states of america ) have consistently pursued this approach in the past 30 years , ” the study states . “ as long as these immigration policies continue , our reference scenario showed sustained population growth and workforce expansion in these countries , with concomitant economic growth . ” but not everyone is on board with liberal immigration policies . in the united states , these policies have faced a political backlash in the past few years . and japan , hungary , slovakia , the baltic states , and several other countries have so far chosen not to boost immigration as a way to deal with their declines in population . “ in these societies , so far , the desire to maintain a linguistic and culturally homogeneous society has outweighed the economic , fiscal , and geopolitical risks of declining populations , ” state the experts . working - age populationthe study , funded by the bill and melinda gates foundation , states that liberal immigration with effective assimilation into these societies is the best strategy for economic growth , fiscal stability , and geopolitical security . “ some countries with fertility lower than replacement level , such as the usa , australia , and canada , will probably maintain their working - age populations through net immigration , ” state the authors of the study . “ our forecasts for a shrinking global population have positive implications for the environment , climate change , and food production , but possible negative implications for labour forces , economic growth , and social support systems in parts of the world with the greatest fertility declines . ” the united nations ’ sustainable development guidelines booklet calls on all countries to up their commitments to abortion , contraception and other reproductive healthcare for women . “ access to family planning is not only related to women ’ s reproductive rights and the reduction of unintended pregnancies , but also to improved health and nutritional status of children , brought about by longer birth spacing and the reduction in maternal mortality , ” states the un ’ s family planning and the 2030 agenda for sustainable development data booklet . “ redefining the global strategy for achieving universal access to sexual and reproductive health - care services and identifying possible avenues for improved access is important to guarantee and improve the progress of countries that are most in need , ” maintains the international organization . 
__label__relevant refugee judge asks woman why her husband wouldn ’ t ‘just kill ’ her send this page to someone via emailhalima alari sat before a canadian refugee judge and tried to explain why her husband didn ’ t kill her . “ if he really wants you to be gone , why doesn ’ t he just kill you ? ” asked refugee judge yonatan rozenszajn during a hearing at canada ’ s immigration and refugee board ( irb ) in april . alari claims her husband raped and beat her for years , with the attacks getting worse each time she became pregnant with a girl . he wanted a boy , she said . wait , there ’ s more : how refugee claimants are being let down by judgesbut rozenszajn didn ’ t believe her . he also said he didn ’ t understand why the beatings continued for years after she left her husband and moved to a different city . story continues below advertisement “ why wouldn ’ t he just kill you then ? why spend all these years , just , like , harassing you ? ” he asked . alari ’ s lawyer , talia joundi , says rozenszajn ’ s line of questioning was an “ egregious violation ” of the irb ’ s guidelines set out for cases involving allegations of sexual assault and domestic abuse . 1 : 46 woman angry after refugee judge asked why husband wouldn ’ t ‘just kill ’ her instead of beating her for years woman angry after refugee judge asked why husband wouldn ’ t ‘just kill ’ her instead of beating her for yearsand experts who spoke with global news — including more than a dozen immigration lawyers — say there are refugee judges who often do not apply or who improperly apply the board ’ s guidelines . the consequences of these problematic decisions , they say , can mean the difference between life and death for some claimants . “ [he] violated those guidelines in a shocking way , ” joundi said . story continues below advertisementrozenszajn rejected alari ’ s claim for refugee status , saying there were too many omissions and inconsistencies in her story . “ i do not believe what she says , ” rozenszajn wrote in his final decision . global news has agreed to change alari ’ s name because of fears she could be harmed if her appeal is denied and she is returned to nigeria . guidelines must be consideredthe irb cannot tell judges how to decide cases , even when the facts of two claims are nearly identical , because that would interfere with their judicial independence . the board can , however , require judges to consider specific sets of guidelines when assessing evidence and writing their final decisions . if judges deviate from these guidelines , they have to provide a reasonable explanation why . for cases that involve women who allege gender - based violence , such as alari , the board ’ s gender guidelines say judges should consider the effect trauma has on a woman ’ s ability to testify . the guidelines also say cases involving sexual violence “ may require extremely sensitive handling ” because of the psychological and emotional trauma victims of rape and domestic violence often experience . story continues below advertisement1 : 12 lawyer says refugee judge violated guidelines in a ‘shocking ’ way lawyer says refugee judge violated guidelines in a ‘shocking ’ wayin alari ’ s appeal to the irb , joundi said rozenszajn ’ s decision didn ’ t meet these requirements . she also said his “ inexplicable ” line of questioning about why alari ’ s husband wouldn ’ t “ just kill ” her breached the board ’ s guidelines by forcing alari to speculate about the mindset of her alleged abuser , and because it showed a “ complete lack of understanding ” about the basic facts of domestic abuse and its cyclical nature . alari , meanwhile , says rozenszajn ’ s questions made her feel worthless . “ how can a fellow human being look at me and ask me that , why are you not dead ? ” tweet thisalari ’ s claim rejectedin his written decision , rozenszajn said he rejected alari ’ s claim because she was untrustworthy and because she didn ’ t provide credible testimony or documentary evidence . story continues below advertisementhe made these findings , in part , because he said alari submitted fraudulent and fabricated medical records from a private hospital in nigeria — although his decision contains no indication that he tried to authenticate the documents himself , despite having the hospital ’ s phone number . 2 : 31 the rising rhetoric around refugees is fuelling many falsehoods about whether these new arrivals pose a threat the rising rhetoric around refugees is fuelling many falsehoods about whether these new arrivals pose a threatthe federal court has said irb judges should take steps to verify documents they suspect could be fraudulent if contact information is available , and that decisions can be overturned when this is not done . “ the [irb] may feel that it has no obligation to make simple checks even when lives are at stake . i hope not , ” wrote justice james russell in a 2018 decision . read more : canada blocks teen from reuniting with family despite taliban death threatsrozenszajn also said alari misrepresented her medical history and omitted important information about her husband ’ s profession and his ability to find her in nigeria if she fled . he said this was critical to her case and that it negatively affected her overall credibility . story continues below advertisementthe irb considers refugee claims private and typically does not disclose information about specific cases . the board did , however , respond to a request about alari ’ s claim that rozenszajn ’ s questions breached irb guidelines — though it did not acknowledge if these questions were inappropriate . “ in this case , irb management has spoken with the member . he understands that his question to the claimant was construed as being insensitive , and he is undertaking further training , ” said irb spokesperson line - alice guibert - wolff . guidelines are effectivequeen ’ s university law professor sharry aiken says the irb ’ s guidelines , when applied properly , are extremely effective at helping judges decide cases fairly and protecting the most vulnerable refugee claimants . while she can ’ t comment on alari ’ s case specifically , she says judges who improperly apply the guidelines or the law remain “ hugely concerning ” for refugee advocates in canada . but this doesn ’ t mean the guidelines are broken . in fact , aiken says refugee decision - makers around the world envy the guidelines because of their clear framework for how to deal with the most challenging and complicated cases . what it does mean , she said , is that despite the board ’ s significant efforts to improve its hiring policies and to overhaul its training procedures , there remain ineffective judges at the irb who lack the competency needed to properly apply the law or the guidelines . story continues below advertisement2 : 21 asylum agreement between u . s . and canada challenged in federal court asylum agreement between u . s . and canada challenged in federal courtit ’ s these judges , aiken said — the ones who consistently make the same errors — that should concern the irb and whose performance should be watched closely . “ it ’ s more an issue of decision - makers who are doing a poor job and could probably be rebuked for a whole range of reasons , ” aiken said . “ not least of which is their inability to properly apply the guidelines . ” read more : saddam hussein cabinet minister made refugee claim so canada could pay for dialysis treatmentsbut guibert - wolff says there “ should be no doubt about the competence or professionalism of irb decision - makers . ” she says new judges are evaluated throughout their initial training period and are then monitored by their supervisors . the board also conducts “ post - training mentoring exercises , ” which include reviewing complaints it receives about judges and decisions that are overturned by either the irb ’ s appeal division or the federal court . story continues below advertisementirb ‘creates trauma ’ a 2018 global news investigation revealed allegations of serious misconduct at the irb , including claims of “ incompetence ” and “ aggressive ” behaviour made against two former refugee judges . in response to these claims , parliament launched a review of how the board handles formal complaints made against its own members . paul aterman , then - head of the irb , told mps that the board takes allegations of wrongdoing seriously , that it monitors judges ’ decisions , and that they receive extensive training on how to follow the board ’ s rules and guidelines . the irb also revamped its complaint process , promising to make it more transparent and to continue investigating complaints even after judges leave their positions . but preevanda sapru , a toronto immigration lawyer who specializes in gender - based cases at the irb , says these measures are often ineffective and that the board “ systemically creates trauma ” for the most vulnerable claimants by ignoring its own rules , procedures and guidelines . 3 : 34 family living in canada for more than 6 years to be deported christmas eve family living in canada for more than 6 years to be deported christmas eveshe recalls the case of a hungarian client whose husband allegedly beat her , locked her in an apartment and forced her to have sex with men for money over a period of several years . story continues below advertisementafter coming to canada and making a refugee claim with her husband — because she said that was the only way he would allow her to leave hungary with her children — the woman left him and then applied to separate their cases at the irb . the board denied this application twice , however , before finally agreeing , sapru said . the woman then submitted four separate applications under the board ’ s vulnerable person guidelines to get permission to testify with the help of a “ designated representative . ” sapru says the woman found it difficult to speak about her past experiences due to the severe trauma she endured . 2 : 20 family set to be deported on christmas eve has been granted stay in canada family set to be deported on christmas eve has been granted stay in canadabut judges at the irb rejected these applications despite sapru having submitted , as the board ’ s guidelines recommend , psychological and psychiatric reports that concluded the woman was too traumatized to testify . story continues below advertisementthe judges made their decisions , in part , because they said the woman did not lack the intellectual or mental capacity to testify . and while the irb did assign a female judge to the case and allowed someone into the hearing room to comfort her , it wasn ’ t until the presiding judge saw the claimant in person and realized she was incapable of testifying that a designated representative was assigned . sapru says all of this could have been avoided , however , if the board followed its own guidelines . other lawyers who spoke with global news say it ’ s routine for decision - makers to approve accommodations without an application . this usually happens in an informal manner , they say , with judges agreeing to specific requests on the day of a hearing . but sapru says this process was insufficient for her client because of the severe trauma she endured . that ’ s why she submitted her request in advance , as the guidelines suggest . quantifying problematic decision - makingstatistics obtained by global news show there is significant variation in approval rates for vulnerable person applications across the country . story continues below advertisementover the past three years , judges at the irb ’ s toronto office rejected 63 per cent of the vulnerable person applications they received , while the board ’ s montreal office rejected 22 per cent of applications . in vancouver , just six per cent of applications were rejected . sean rehaag , director of york university ’ s centre for refugee studies , says the “ stark difference ” in acceptance rates raises concerns about unequal treatment for the most vulnerable refugee claimants . “ if the differences are attributable to varying decision - making practices across canada , then there is a serious fairness problem , ” he said . 2 : 04 cbsa cancels arrest warrants for people it can ’ t find cbsa cancels arrest warrants for people it can ’ t findrehaag has spent more than a decade collecting data on decisions made at all levels of canada ’ s refugee determination process . story continues below advertisementhis work has revealed “ massive variation ” in acceptance rates for individual judges at the irb , its appeals division , and the federal court . read more : family living in canada for six years set to be deported on christmas evein 2018 , for example , acceptance rates for individual judges at the irb ’ s refugee protection division ranged between 95 per cent of the cases they heard at the high end and 10 per cent of the cases they heard at the low end . this extreme variation between judges , rehaag said , leads to questions about whether refugee claims in canada are decided based on law and facts or are instead decided by the “ luck of the draw . ” in response to these concerns , the irb says it “ strives to achieve consistency ” in decision - making , but adds that individual cases are decided based on their merits and the evidence presented . the board also says asylum seekers have a right to present their claims “ as they see fit , ” which can affect the outcome of a case . a ‘check the box ’ approach to guidelinesrehaag says it ’ s not uncommon for refugee judges to take a “ check the box ” approach when applying the board ’ s guidelines to their written decisions . story continues below advertisementthis means judges acknowledge the guidelines exist , often mentioning them by name in their rulings , but then fail to explain why they do not apply to a specific case . read more : family set to be deported christmas eve will be allowed to staywhile he did not comment on alari ’ s case specifically , rehaag says some refugee judges use this approach as a way of appeal proofing decisions — meaning that because the guidelines are mentioned , their rulings are more difficult to overturn on the grounds that the guidelines were not considered . according to the federal court , an example of the guidelines being mentioned but not properly applied is the irb appeal decision in the case of vincent mckenzie , a gay pastor from jamaica . 1 : 49 ex - minister under hussein made refugee claim in canada ex - minister under hussein made refugee claim in canadafearing he could be hurt , even killed , for being gay , mckenzie kept his sexual orientation a secret from nearly everyone he knew , including his family . story continues below advertisementso when a judge at the irb denied his refugee claim because he couldn ’ t prove he was gay — the judge said he was “ not an lgbt person ” — mckenzie said he felt helpless . “ you live every day with the fear that you ’ re going to die , ” mckenzie said . “ you ’ re constantly told being gay is an abomination . ” but the irb anticipates some people , such as mckenzie , may find it difficult to prove their sexual orientation and has directed judges in cases that involve lgbtq2 claimants to consider its sexual orientation and gender identity and expression ( sogie ) guidelines . when reviewing mckenzie ’ s case , however , federal court justice e . susan elliot said the irb appeals judge did not properly apply these guidelines because he failed to consider mckenzie ’ s claim that he came from “ an extremely homophobic country ” and that it was reasonable he couldn ’ t provide hard evidence in support of some aspects of his case . elliot also said the judge gave no explanation why he didn ’ t believe mckenzie ’ s story and why he decided to deviate from the guidelines . saying it was “ unreasonable ” and “ unintelligible , ” elliot overturned the irb appeal decision . the irb , meanwhile , denies the claim that judges take a “ check the box ” approach to the guidelines , adding that the board is committed to ensuring they are “ properly and rigorously applied . ” story continues below advertisementthe board also said it is currently reviewing the sogie guidelines , while seeking ways to strengthen its policies around appointing designated representatives to better help the most vulnerable refugee claimants . challenges assessing credibilitywhether a claimant is believable or not is the deciding factor in almost all refugee claims in canada , said mckenzie ’ s lawyer adrienne smith . there is , however , a legal presumption that claimants are telling the truth unless there ’ s a good reason to disbelieve them . judges make “ credibility findings ” based on a range of factors : such as whether a claimant ’ s testimony appears trustworthy , the quality of any documentary evidence submitted , and because of a lack of corroborating evidence in situations where a judge thinks hard evidence should exist . 0 : 53 law professor explains why judges are supposed to presume asylum seekers are telling the truth law professor explains why judges are supposed to presume asylum seekers are telling the truthbut the board ’ s sogie guidelines give judges leeway when considering these factors . the guidelines also help judges make decisions in difficult cases , even where there ’ s no corroborating evidence . story continues below advertisementmaurice tomlinson , a toronto immigration lawyer who has spent much of the past decade giving sensitivity training to police and challenging anti - gay laws in the caribbean , says the board ’ s guidelines are critical for making sure lgbtq2 claimants are not disadvantaged in their efforts to seek refugee status in canada . while he acknowledges that assessing credibility is challenging , he says the persecution people throughout the caribbean face due to their sexual identity is “ pervasive . ” he says this extends to police forces in countries such as jamaica and antigua where many officers are still unwilling to help lgbtq2 people in need of protection because they are “ intrinsically homophobic . ” “ acts of murder and abuse against lgbt people in the caribbean are legendary , ” tomlinson said . 2 : 05 lawyer and gay - rights advocate says homophobia is ‘pervasive ’ in caribbean lawyer and gay - rights advocate says homophobia is ‘pervasive ’ in caribbeansimilar principles to help judges assess evidence under difficult circumstances are contained in the board ’ s gender - guidelines . story continues below advertisementwhile judges are allowed to reject claims based on allegations of sexual assault or domestic violence , they are encouraged to recognize that women who make these claims often face unique challenges when trying to prove their cases . the guidelines say judges should be familiar with rape trauma syndrome and battered woman syndrome — both of which can significantly affect a woman ’ s ability to testify . toronto psychiatrist dr . michaela beder , who routinely works with refugee claimants , says trauma , including sexual assault and domestic abuse , can affect a woman ’ s memory and her ability to recount past experiences in a linear way . black - outs , forgetting important details such as dates , and subconsciously putting walls around certain memories as a way of avoiding pain are some of the more common symptoms associated with severe abuse and post - traumatic stress disorde , she says . and while rozenszajn ’ s decision says he considered the gender - guidelines when assessing alari ’ s case , joundi says his ruling was incorrect because it gave only “ boilerplate ” attention to the guidelines and did not explain why he decided to deviate from them . she also says his decision did not consider the effect prolonged trauma had on alari ’ s emotional well - being , and that her mental health condition changed once she came to canada and the alleged threat from her husband no longer existed . story continues below advertisement “ his role was to ask her questions , yes , but also to handle her case and the hearing in an extremely sensitive way , ” joundi said . “ that ’ s what the guidelines say . ” 
__label__no_relevant new two - step process to study in canada in fall 2020 ircc has released details on how the new two - step study permit process will work for international students . canada released new information this morning on how to obtain a study permit for the fall 2020 academic year . the coronavirus outbreak has made it difficult for international students to get the documents they usually need for canadian study permits . the canadian border is also closed to most international students . students are only exempt from travel restrictions if their study permits were issued before noon on march 18 . even then , border officers may refuse entry to exempt international students if their program can be done online . international students still need to be in canada for an essential reason . if their courses are offered online and they can study from home , that could make their reason for travelling to canada “ optional ” or “ discretionary . ” see if you are eligible to study in canada in fall 2020however , immigration , refugees and citizenship canada ( ircc ) is introducing a new two - step approval process that will allow international students to start the semester online without a finalized study permit . today , the immigration department unveiled new instructions for its officers on how to proceed with the temporary changes . ircc stated last week it is aiming to process complete study permit applications that have already been submitted as quickly as possible . students who want to take advantage of the temporary two - step process have until september 15 to apply for their study permit . how to obtain a study permit for fall 2020the first stage is much like the regular study - permit process . international students have to submit : letter of acceptance ; certificat d ’ acceptation du québec ( for quebec students only ) ; proof of funds ; proof that they can leave canada when they no longer have legal temporary or permanent status ; andany family ties to canada . immigration officers will assess these applications and issue pre - approval at their discretion . international students can begin studying at this stage . to get the full study permit , and eventually be able to travel to canada , international students will need to submit : immigration medical examinationsecurity - police certificatesbiometricsregular requirements for student direct streaminternational students who are applying under the student direct stream ( sds ) are only eligible for the expedited study - permit program if they can submit a full application . otherwise , they have to apply under the regular process or wait until they are able to supply all the necessary documents to be eligible for the sds . ircc also says that there may be delays . the sds aims to process study permits in 20 days . currently , international students are eligible if they are from the following seven countries : china , india , morocco , pakistan , philippines , senegal and vietnam . online study is now eligible for post - graduation work permitthe full study permit is needed if students want to complete their program in canada , and eventually apply for a post - graduation work permit ( pgwp ) to work in the country after they graduate . ircc previously changed the eligibility requirements for the pgwp as designated learning institutions changed their in - class programs to online . international students will now be able to do to half of their program online and still be eligible for the work permit that could allow them to stay in canada for at least three more years . the pgwp is important because it enables international students to get the canadian work experience they often need to become eligible for canadian permanent residence . express entry and the provincial nominee program ( pnp ) are among numerous immigration pathways available to international students who complete their studies in canada and get qualifying work experience . “ the pandemic has had a significant impact on international students and the canadian institutions and communities that host them , ” immigration minister , marco mendicino , said in a news release . “ this is why we have implemented a series of measures to support them . we value the contribution of young people seeking a high - quality education in canada , and we ’ re making every effort to minimize how current challenges affect their plans and dreams for the future . ” see if you are eligible to study in canada in fall 2020© 2020 cic news all rights reserved
__label__no_relevant immigrant finds kelowna job market challenging – kelowna capital news pearl has a master ’ s degree in finance and was able to find work through kcrfor pearl sanasen , immigrating to canada was a long - term goal , one that she and her husband alex , worked at for thirteen years before making it a reality . they sought educational opportunities and skills training , they scrimped and saved and they both worked diligently to achieve their goal . they made their dreams come true , but even though kelowna is home now , pearl ’ s journey hasn ’ t been without its challenges and hardships , said a news release from kelowna community resources . after years of preparing and planning , pearl and alex were accepted into the skilled worker ’ s program and allowed to immigrate . as an engineer and software developer , alex , wanted to work in the high - tech industry so he came first in 2013 , to look for a job and help them get established in canada . pearl has a master ’ s degree in finance and had a well - paying job in thailand , so she stayed behind initially , but they soon found they needed to be together to support each other , and pearl sold their home and car in thailand and joined alex . starting in vancouver , a job opportunity for alex quickly brought them to kelowna but for pearl it was difficult . “ in thailand , i worked with an organization that helped refugees relocate and integrate into their new communities , so i was very well aware of the challenges immigrants face and i was prepared , but i had a reality check , ” she said . “ i used to have a good paying job , i used to be somebody in the organization , and now here i was nobody . i felt so alone , especially when alex was at work . ” “ i needed more and i searched for opportunities , ” she said . “ i found kcr – community resources and i attended every single workshop to get myself focused . i did everything to be involved and then i started to volunteer . ” through her volunteer efforts , pearl made connections and was able to get local references and landed her first two jobs in canada . unfortunately , with one employer , pearl felt harassed and mocked . “ it was a good paying job , but i was so unhappy . they made fun of my accent , made me feel like i was not good at my job and dismissed my input . i felt like an alien . ” “ as a newcomer , you don ’ t feel the confidence to express yourself , especially if you need the job and speaking up can jeopardize that job . ” she eventually did stand up for herself and left her employment , although it meant starting over again . “ i went back to kcr , i read books , i did everything i could to get my confidence back , ” she said . her efforts payed off and she got a temporary job at elections bc that she loved and where she felt recognized for her efforts . now she loves her job at maximus workbc as a case management assistant . she also works part - time with two immigration companies to help participants settle in the area and then runs her own jewellery business that feeds her creative needs and allows her to express her thai culture . she is active and giving back as a mentor at kcr – community resources , helping other immigrants , through their journey . “ i want my story to inspire others – immigrants have so many skills and so much potential to bring to canada . it is easy to lose your confidence and self - esteem because there are so many struggles , but they have so much to share . ” to report a typo , email : edit@kelownacapnews . com . edit@kelownacapnews . comlike us on facebook and follow us on twitter . 
__label__no_relevant pair plead guilty in stabbing death of former manitoba ku klux klan leader hey there , time traveller ! this article was published 22 / 10 / 2018 ( 658 days ago ) , so information in it may no longer be current . two men pleaded guilty monday in connection with the death of the former leader of the manitoba ku klux klan , who died after being stabbed in the chest with a machete . bill harcus , 45 , who had legally changed his name to james edsel tucker , died june 23 , 2016 , in an apartment on furby street . bill harcus , former head of the manitoba kkk , pictured in 1995 . joshua evans , who pleaded guilty to second - degree murder , and martin archie flett , who pleaded guilty to manslaughter , will be back in court of queen ' s bench for their sentencing hearing nov . 5 . evans ' lawyer , mike cook , said the killing had nothing to do with the victim ' s white supremacist past . drugs - - including crystal methamphetamine - - and " personal issues " flett had with tucker were motivating factors in the killing , said cook . in 1992 , tucker , then 21 , and two other members of the kkk were charged with hate crimes . tucker had pleaded not guilty to distributing flyers promoting hatred of black people , of helping distribute pamphlets entitled " the death of the white race , " and was also charged with mischief for allegedly erasing and replacing a recording on a coalition against homophobic violence answering machine . tucker was represented at the trial by lawyer doug christie , who gained notoriety for defending others charged with hate crimes , including alberta school teacher jim keegstra and toronto publisher ernst zundel . the charges against the three accused were stayed , after a winnipeg police officer admitted she perjured herself by not admitting at first she used surveillance tapes instead of just her memory to help her in writing her notes . tucker legally changed his name within a couple of years of the trial and reportedly never re - entered the hate movement . nearly a quarter - century later , he ended up being killed by two indigenous men . an agreed statement of facts said evans , then 24 , and flett , then 22 , went to an apartment block on furby street with a handgun , sawed - off rifle and two - foot - long machete . they had a confrontation with a tenant , assaulted him with brass knuckles and a handgun . after being beaten for more than two hours , the tenant relented , taking the pair up to the apartment suite he shared with tucker . tucker was ordered to the ground at gunpoint and kicked in the face . when he tried to resist , he was stabbed in the chest with a machete and died of extensive blood loss . rather than go to trial as expected , justice richard saull accepted the second - degree murder plea monday from evans , and a lesser plea of manslaughter for flett . " my fellow had the sword at the time the deceased was attacked , " cook said of his client , who faces a life sentence in prison . cook hasn ' t asked for a full gladue report looking into background factors , including the low incomes , high unemployment , lack or irrelevance of education , substance abuse , and community fragmentation that lead to a higher incidence of crime and incarceration among aboriginal people . however , but cook said he will present a number of " relevant gladue factors " for saull to consider when sentencing evans . cook said he expects flett ' s lawyer will do likewise . carol . sanders@freepress . mb . ca
__label__relevant female genital mutilation practitioners are travelling to canada , border officers warned practitioners of female genital mutilation are believed to be entering canada to perform the illegal procedure on girls , according to intelligence reports distributed to frontline border officers . the reports obtained by global news show the canada border services agency has been on the alert for the arrival of travelling “ pfgms , ” or practitioners of female genital mutilation , for more than a year . photos of the cutting tools , belts and “ special herbs ” practitioners might be carrying in their baggage when they arrive in the country have been circulated to border officers . once in canada , the practitioners are typically called into homes to perform the procedures , the cbsa intelligence operations and analysis division wrote in a report titled , “ female genital mutilation practitioners entering canada . ” story continues below advertisementread more : 2 u . s . gynecologists suggest ‘compromise ’ when it comes to female genital mutilationa second intelligence advisory told officers to “ be aware of girls and women travelling to or returning from regions where they may be subjected to the practice . ” an accompanying map highlighted countries in africa and the middle east . while it has long been suspected that canadian girls were being taken abroad to undergo female genital mutilations , the reports show that federal officials believe the practice is now occurring in canada . female genital mutilation refers to “ cutting of female genitalia and permanently mutilating the sexual organs of young females for non - medical reasons , ” according to the ontario human rights commission . although it can cause chronic health problems and trauma , the procedure is used “ to control female sexuality , ensure chastity until marriage and to render young women more desirable for marriage purposes , ” the rights commission said on its website . the practice has been illegal in canada since 1997 . there has never been a successful prosecution in this country but in the u . s . , six people have been arrested since april for allegedly performing genital mutilations at a detroit clinic . in australia last year , a former midwife , kubra magennis , 72 , was convicted of performing genital mutilations on two girls , ages 6 and 11 . their mother was also found guilty as well as a religious cleric . story continues below advertisement “ practitioners of female genital mutilation are almost certainly entering canada to engage in female genital mutilation on both girls and women of primarily african and south - east asian descent , ” the cbsa wrote in one of the reports . tweet thisdisclosed under the access to information act , the reports show that canadian border officials have been told to treat those “ committing , aiding and abetting ” female genital mutilations as possible criminals . the reports were labelled as a “ human trafficking ” priority . read more : ‘powerful ’ mannequin challenge highlights plight of female genital mutilation “ pfgms enter canada with the purpose of committing a crime ( aggravated assault ) but may not have the awareness or belief that they are doing so . those aiding the pfgm may also be charged in accordance with the criminal code , ” said one of the reports . tens of thousands of girls and women in u . s . , united kingdom and australia have undergone the procedure or are at risk , the reports said . officials don ’ t yet know how widespread the problem is in canada but one intelligence report said identifying practitioners at points of entry was “ an important first step . ” “ according to the royal canadian mounted police and canadian health care providers , it is almost certain that fgm is also happening in canada , despite the legislation against the practice in 1997 , ” it said . tweet this “ canada has sizeable diaspora populations from somalia , ethiopia , eritrea , sudan and nigeria , all countries where a high percentage of the female population is estimated to have experienced fgm . ” story continues below advertisementthe report said pfgms use razor blades , shards of glass , strips for binding legs as well as ash , oil and herbal mixtures . “ these items may be present in the practitioner ’ s baggage , ” it said . the “ patient ” undergoing the procedure and family members may greet them at the airport , it added . “ in canada , a pfgm is most likely to be called to the home of a woman to be re - infibulated post - partum ( re - sewn ) or of a girl to perform the initial fgm , ” the report said . preventing female genital mutilations is difficult because the parents “ may believe it is a good thing ” for daughters and it is “ not culturally acceptable ” for girls to talk openly about it , another cbsa report said . a report by the canadian women ’ s health network said female genital mutilation was considered a form of child abuse and those at risk could be removed from their homes to prevent it from happening . story continues below advertisementstewart . bell@globalnews . ca
__label__no_relevant canada ' s fastest - growing crime problem is in wetaskiwin , alta . a newcomer might receive several different tours of wetaskiwin when reporting on crime in the central alberta city . susan kokas , a local resident , starts her excursion by driving past one of the commercial buildings where she once worked as a cleaner . pointing to trees at the end of the cul - de - sac , she says a young first nations woman was found dead there a couple of years ago . a self - described “ poor ” resident who ’ s lived close to the town ’ s troubles , kokas ticks off a list of petty , seemingly pointless crimes she ’ s endured , like the theft of paint cans she ’ d kept in her backyard while doing artwork ; local gangs made a habit of walking through the alleyway behind the modest home where kokas rented a basement suite , grabbing whatever they saw . but what rattled her most was the fatal stabbing of a young man in a parking lot mere blocks from her home—a killing that prompted her to hold a “ violence vigil ” in a nearby park last fall . about 20 people showed up . kevin lonsdale , the city ’ s deputy mayor , begins his sightseeing on the opposite side of town , driving past the local hockey arena and a football field where happy - go - lucky kids are running around as parents dutifully wait for practice to end . his tour showcases a city that ’ s only an hour ’ s drive south of edmonton , with a population of about 12 , 600 , yet still retains its small - town vibe and prairie roots . it ’ s a place where lonsdale spends his spare time coaching minor football and where every patron at a local restaurant appears to know his name . he talks about how perfectly safe he feels in this community . his daughter and her family live about a block from a reputedly dangerous dead - end street , he says , but neither he nor they worry about their safety . “ if you want to look for trouble , you ’ ll find it , ” lonsdale says . “ but every city has crime—unless you ’ ve got superman . ” suffice to say , when both tour guides are told that statistics canada data shows wetaskiwin had the fastest - growing crime severity index score in the country between 2012 and 2017 , the dichotomy between their responses exposes how polarized attitudes in the community have become toward crime . in lonsdale ’ s eyes , wetaskiwin remains a livable place with all the amenities and attractions befitting a city of its size . “ this town ’ s been good to me and my family , ” he says . to kokas and others , such reassurances ignore what data and lived experience have been telling them for years : there ’ s a crime problem here , it ’ s getting worse , and it ’ s increasingly hard to pretend otherwise . the first thing an outsider notices is the abundance of car dealerships on what ’ s known in wetaskiwin as the “ auto mile . ” it ’ s the reason people from across the province make trips here when they ’ re in the market for a new ride . as the famous advertising jingle goes : “ cars cost less in wetaskiwin . ” local rcmp , though , are more invested in getting a handle on stolen cars . property crime is a growing concern , especially motor vehicle theft . when wetaskiwin rcmp insp . keith durance instructed a colleague to read every file on motor vehicle thefts in 2017 , they found that 38 . 5 per cent of cases in the city involved keys being easily accessible to the criminal : vehicles left running ; an unlocked car with keys hidden under a sun visor ; keys left on a nail hanging in an unlocked garage . ( in the surrounding rural area , it was 42 per cent . ) many residents still have that small - town canadian mentality—they don ’ t lock their cars or doors , says durance . “ it ’ s not right that someone is going to come to your house and steal your car , ” he says . “ but if you locked the door and kept the keys in your pocket , they wouldn ’ t be stealing it . ” so the rcmp detachment is starting a “ lock your car ” campaign . but addressing property crime also requires boots on the ground , and for durance , that meant bolstering his crime - reduction unit by three officers . “ when i first got here [18 months ago] , it was a one - person team—which doesn ’ t make a team , ” he says . a major part of the unit ’ s strategy is to focus on prolific offenders , durance says , including those who might be on bail or released on probation . a dedicated team can not only compile analytics but also keep up with mundane but meaningful things like curfew checks on parolees or suspects out on bail . with about eight per cent of the criminals accounting for 80 per cent of the property crime in town , durance reasons that concentrating on those frequent offenders will produce a steep decline in property crime . it ’ s a good start , but the main driver behind the increase in the city ’ s crime - severity score is serious violent crime , such as assault with a weapon and assault causing bodily harm , which more than doubled between 2012 to 2017 , from 43 offences to 94 . aggravated assault rose from one offence to 10 . there were also two homicides last year , whereas the city saw just one ( in 2014 ) over the previous five - year period . writer aaron hutchins discusses how wetaskiwin can handle canada ’ s fastest - growing crime problem , on the big story podcast . altogether , wetaskiwin ’ s crime severity index numbers peg it as the most dangerous city in alberta—and the third most dangerous in the country . ( maclean ’ s uses statistics canada ’ s annual crime data to produce a report ranking canada ’ s 237 population centres with 10 , 000 or more people . statscan ’ s crime severity index is a measure of both the number and seriousness of crimes in a given area . the most dangerous place in canada , according to the index , remains north battleford , sask . —a city that maclean ’ s profiled last year . it shares some demographic features with wetaskiwin , including population size and status as a hub to surrounding rural communities . ) but tyler gandam , the mayor of wetaskiwin , stresses that the city ’ s growing crime - severity numbers should not be interpreted to mean law - abiding residents are in danger . “ if there ’ s a rise in the number of assaults , it ’ s between people who know each other , ” he says . “ they ’ re not random acts of aggression or people getting robbed . i think that ’ s where residents might feel more scared seeing us ranked no . 1 in the province . but they ’ re not in any danger of getting assaulted . it ’ s two people who have a beef with each other already . ” no local politician who spoke with maclean ’ s would say wetaskiwin has a crime problem . if anything , they argue , the area has a crime severity index problem . the number is not , says city councillor patricia macquarrie , a measure of community safety : “ it wasn ’ t that overall crime in the city grew from eighth worst [in the country] to third worst . it ’ s a case of very few , but very major , instances increasing our severity to that level because of our [smaller] population . ” the small - population argument is echoed at the city ’ s rcmp detachment . “ it doesn ’ t take long for the crime severity to ramp up , particularly if you ’ re having a certain type of crime rearing its head , ” says durance . “ we had 28 robberies in january and february this year , which is unheard of . so i suspect with next year ’ s crime severity , we ’ ll be up there again because of the armed robberies in january and february . ” durance is quick to point out that his team solved 26 of those robberies . of course , the logic of that math also means a smaller city can , through luck or good management , turn around its ranking . in 2012 , estevan , sask . , ranked as the 20th most dangerous place in the country . when police chief paul ladouceur came to the city of 11 , 000 two years later , the biggest problem was drugs and related enterprises . “ we had massage parlours , [biker] clubhouses and organized crime , ” he says . “ no community likes to say , ‘we have a drug problem . ’ ” ladouceur could see that cocaine and crack use were the root cause of much of the city ’ s spinoff crime—break and enters , robberies , home invasions , offences involving weapons . his answer was to apply a principle of business to policing : “ we ’ re in the business of public safety , and a good business follows up with its customers , ” he says . it ’ s something police forces don ’ t all do well . many residents who call to report a suspected break - in down the street never hear from the cops again . in estevan , says ladouceur , “ we make a very strong point of reaching back out and saying : ‘hi , you called with information on a possible impaired driver last night . we just wanted to thank you because we caught that person , they blew well over the legal limit , and you likely saved somebody ’ s life . congratulations . ’ ” it goes a long way . not only do residents appreciate police following through with the information , he says , it makes them more likely to report other crimes in the future . ladouceur credits that trust - building for helping make estevan the city with the fastest - shrinking crime - severity number in canada . it ’ s 91st in this year ’ s maclean ’ s rankings . the biggest step , according to the chief , was facing up to the truth . “ we told the town , ‘we have a drug problem—and we need your help . ’ it is amazing when you ask questions bluntly . the calls start coming . a good portion of that is trust—trust that the police will do something . ” wetaskiwin , to be sure , is not a scene from mad max . friendly locals are out shopping , eating in restaurants and walking down main street . but ask a handful of random strangers about crime , and you ’ ll get a story . jennifer threefingers says she was assaulted in her wetaskiwin home two months ago . the patio door was open and “ this guy—we know him but he ’ s not a good friend—walked in , ” she says . “ he pulled my hair and kicked me in the face . it was ugly . ” she says she reported the incident and the man was arrested . larry jensen , a 54 - year - old who stopped to chat outside his low - income apartment on his way home from work , wishes he could move to a quieter , cleaner and safer neighbourhood in wetaskiwin ’ s north end . but he can ’ t afford it on his wages as a mechanic ’ s assistant . “ this is a seedy town , ” says jensen , who ’ s lived in wetaskiwin since the early 1990s . “ i don ’ t like to say that , but that ’ s what it is . when the sun goes down , the crazies come out . ” the windows on his old dodge were smashed on one occasion . another time , the tires were slashed . jensen laments the proliferation of liquor stores and pawn shops in the city . while taking out his trash at night , he says , he has heard the sound of people trying to open car doors—and the quiet exclamation , “ this one ’ s open ! ” though he stands about six foot five , he says he ’ s quick to turn back indoors : “ i ’ m not going to go be some crime - fighter . ” teresa callihoo , whose children are indigenous , says there ’ s a perception that first nations people from the neighbouring city of maskwacis are the perpetrators of most of the crime in wetaskiwin . it ’ s true , she says , that gang violence began “ ramping up ” in maskwacis a decade ago , when she was working for the city of wetaskiwin on a crime prevention program . several years ago , one of the reserves passed a bylaw to evict known gang members living there . but she notes that maskwacis , which serves four reserves , was also home to the ermineskin indian residential school that shut down in 1973 . “ the intergenerational trauma—that ’ s what we ’ re seeing playing out in [wetaskiwin] with the crime , homelessness and addiction , ” says callihoo , who lives in wetaskiwin with her kids . “ i think what is perceived as inaction in [wetaskiwin] is maybe just cautious planning—how to handle the optics of a rising crime rate without alarming people , and how to maintain the relationship between our community and maskwacis . ” a growing homelessness problem doesn ’ t help , and is made all the more complicated as the city doesn ’ t have a shelter . the city is working on building a friendship centre to help with shelter , food security and social services for those in need , but it ’ s far from breaking ground . in the meantime , residents complain about the homeless—most of them first nations people who are found sleeping inside the entryways to apartment buildings or bank branches in a place where winter temperatures plunge below - 20° c . photos of their makeshift sleeping quarters often wind up on a “ wetaskiwin rant and rave ” facebook page . this fall , the city put up wooden shed - like structures in an empty field next to the walmart to help protect the homeless from heat and rain . they ’ d previously been used as dugouts at the local baseball diamond , but such structures are also used in the area as shelters for cattle . proponents argued it was at least something , anything , to help , and locals would venture out to the field to offer blankets or water . “ those sheds were a positive effort , ” says sherry greene , who ’ s originally from maskwacis . “ my brother is homeless . we worried about him every night . we knew those sheds were helping him . ” but critics argued the makeshift solution wasn ’ t enough—never mind the optics of using livestock sheds for people . in any event , mere weeks after they were installed , they burned down . a fire spread from a burn - barrel brought close to the structures for warmth . in town , some of the homeless are known as the “ regulators . ” ( the origins of the name aren ’ t clear , but according to old west lore , billy the kid ’ s gang used it . ) for the most part , they are harmless , but the rcmp ’ s durance says “ these regulator folks ” take up a disproportionate amount of police resources : “ they ’ re spending the night in the drunk tank because they ’ re out causing problems and we have to scoop them up . this is a social problem , not a policing problem . ” on a recent weekday morning , a group of unemployed first nations men sit in an empty patch of land behind a liquor store . “ we ’ re just bored , ” says cary mcgilvery , who is originally from st . paul , alta . , but has lived in maskwacis for 26 years . “ like me today , i came over because i had nothing to do at home . ” mcgilvery seems resigned to his situation . “ it ’ s a lack of jobs , lack of employment and lack of communication with the reserve . ” as he speaks , a man shows up and strikes up a conversation with one of the other men sitting around . “ did you get charged ? ” “ for what ? ” the other replies . “ that knife . ” “ oh . no . ” the newcomer then recognizes someone with a notepad , introduces himself , learns he ’ s speaking with a journalist and walks away . no word on what happened to the knife . “ our regulators will often pass out and get robbed . some are elderly and not in great physical condition , so they started carrying knives on them , ” says rcmp cpl . laura mcgilvray . “ but if they ’ re carrying a weapon and pull it out , now we ’ re responding to a weapons offence . ” wetaskiwin has added three rcmp positions over the past two years . durance says he ’ s put in a request for three more for next year . “ when i ask the city for more resources , it ’ s a big ask , ” he says . “ policing is expensive , and wetaskiwin is not a bustling metropolis . ” the mayor says he ’ s budgeted for two new rcmp members . but macquarrie would also like to address crime prevention through environmental design . “ i want to see more lights , ” the third - term councillor says . “ i want to see us restructuring our infrastructure to ensure we have spaces in the community with good sightlines , that people are accessing and feel safe . ” what might that look like ? kokas drives past jubilee park , where she sees her former neighbour out walking the dog . the pup and its master are relatively easy to spot as lights shine down on a chilly october evening . and this is worth pointing out , kokas says , because jubilee “ used to be crackhead park . nobody would go there . i never went there . it was scary . ” on this , she speaks with authority : at the time , she lived two houses away from it . now , she says , things have changed . the city added lighting , benches and garbage cans , and trimmed down the high hedges so anyone driving down main street can see into the park . kokas credits the changes as one of the more successful initiatives to address the growing concern over crime—a flicker of encouragement . but she won ’ t be wandering the park with regularity any time soon . the “ violence vigil ” she held last year drew the local mla , but no city politician . a facebook page she launched , called “ citizens for a safe wetaskiwin , ” didn ’ t gather much steam , so she shut it down . worse , she says , being vocal about local crime made her a frequent target on the “ rant and rave ” facebook page . so she finally gave up and moved a few kilometres out of town . “ you get exhausted , ” she says . “ i was tired of all the ugly . ” 
__label__relevant stephanie parze family to start foundation for domestic violence victims in her name staten island , n . y . - - eighty seven days after stephanie parze went missing , she was found by two teenagers on route 9 near old mill road in a wooded area in old bridge , new jersey . now , her parents say they will start a foundation for domestic violence victims and missing people in her name . at an emotional press conference monday morning , edward parze , stephanie parze ’ s father , said that his family will create the foundation in “ the coming weeks . ” “ we ’ re not going to stop our efforts even though we know she ’ s home , ” he said . the foundation , according to edward parze , will “ bring awareness to battered women and missing people , ” calling the issue of domestic abuse “ an epidemic . ” “ this is an extremely somber day for us , ” he said . “ our family is devastated , our friends our community . ” “ our lives are never going to be the same . ” authorities and the parze family had been searching on staten island and in new jersey since her disappearance . in november , the nypd and police and other emergency responders from all over new jersey converged on long pond park in richmond valley for a major canvass . it was at least the second search of that area by law enforcement personnel . the family and more than 100 volunteers also searched various south shore locations on staten island , including tottenville , prince ’ s bay and wolfe ’ s pond park . “ we have searched over 60 locations , ” edward parze said , thanking the “ thousands ” of people who aided in the various efforts to find his daughter . “ i ’ ve never seen such a devoted group of committed people in my life , ” he said . “ the communities have bonded together from here all the way out to staten island and all throughout the country . ” stephanie parze , 25 , of freehold , had been missing since october . her remains were found in a wooded area off route 9 in old bridge on sunday , jan . 26 , 2020 . authorities believe that former staten islander john ozbilgen was responsible for the death of the missing freehold , new jersey , resident . during the investigation , ozbilgen , 29 , of freehold , was charged with possessing child pornography . he committed suicide at his home on nov . 22 . authorities believe that ozbilgen acted alone when he killed stephanie parze and disposed of her body , monmouth county prosecutor christopher gramiccioni said . authorities had concluded that he was responsible for parze ’ s death , and a suicide note he left behind essentially reaffirmed their belief , the prosecutor said . noting the difficulty of prosecuting a homicide without a body , authorities were working actively toward charging ozbilgen prior to his suicide , he added . the middlesex county medical examiner will determine the cause and manner of her death , the prosecutor said . “ i think the most important development to focus on was that stephanie was found , ” gramiccioni said . “ of course , all of us hoped and prayed that we would find her alive , even against the odds and the evidence in this case . but today , we sincerely hope and pray that the parze family can have some level of closure and lay their daughter to rest in peace . 
__label__relevant wife murderer who was freed on parole so he could ' satisfy his sexual needs ' kills a sex worker a wife murderer who was given permission to satisfy his ' sexual needs ' while out on parole five years early admitted to killing a sex worker inside a canada hotel room . now , sex work advocates and politicians are demanding answers as to why a parole board allowed eustachio gallese to visit brothels and engage with sex workers knowing his violent history . gallese , 51 , turned himself into authorities on january 22 and admitted to slaying 22 - year - old marylène lévesque inside a sainte - foy district hotel room . officers rushed to the scene and discovered lévesque had been stabbed and sustained defensive wounds from the horrifying attack . a motive has not yet been released . gallese reportedly met lévesque while she worked at an erotic massage parlor that he frequented during his time on parole . but he was eventually banned from the premises after he became violent with other women and lévesque would later agree to meet gallese at the hotel room . eustachio gallese ( center ) was convicted of killing his wife in 2006 , but killed a young sex worker this month after he was given permission to satisfy his ' sexual needs ' by a parole boardmarylène lévesque ( pictured ) is the 22 - year - old murder victim of gallese , whom she met at a hotel room in quebec , canadahe has since been charged with second - degree murder in lévesque ' s death and blame for gallese ' s recent actions have shifted to the parole board , who released him to a halfway house five years before his scheduled parole . gallese was convicted of conjugal violence in 1997 and assaulted his ex - wife , according to the vancouver sun . seven years later , gallese murdered his 32 - year - old partner , chantal deschênes , by beating her with a hammer before fatally stabbing her with two knives on october 21 , 2004 . he then wrote a critical message directed towards deschênes on their bedroom wall , before calling his brother to report the killing . gallesen was convicted of killing deschênes , who was a mother of two daughters , in 2006 and sentenced to life in prison with no chance of parole for 15 years . the parole board in 2007 found that gallese was a ' high risk ' for re - offending violence , but in 2016 would lower his status to ' moderate ' and finally ' low to moderate ' last year . he was then granted supervised release on day parole at a halfway house in march 2019 , which would carry on for another six months into september . gallese ( pictured ) convicted of conjugal violence in 1997 and killing 32 - year - old chantal deschênes with a hammer and knivesaccording to the parole board ' s latest decision , gallese brought up concerns about relationships with women that he discussed with his case workers . gallese ' s intimate relationships were ultimate deemed inappropriate , but his case workers acknowledged that he had ' sexual needs ' . ' although you are still single and you say you aren ’ t ready to enter into a serious relationship with a woman , you are able to efficiently evaluate your needs and expectations towards women , ' the statement says , according to vice . ' during the hearing , your parole officer underlined a strategy that was developed with the goal that would allow you to meet women in order to meet your sexual needs , ' it continued . ' the hearing allowed us to realize you managed , and this with the approval of your case - management team , relations with women that the board considers inappropriate . ' lévesque ( pictured ) initially met gallese at a erotic massage parlor , but he was later banned from the property after being violent with other womenthe board said the strategy ' paradoxically constitutes a worrying and significant risk factor ' and ordered a re - evaluation of the terms in six months . lévesque died two months shy of the re - evaluation date . gallese was also expected to report all relations with women to officials . since lévesque ' s death , quebec justice minister sonia lebel has since demanded answers on how a violent offender like gallese made parole . quebec justice minister sonia lebe ( pictured ) has demanded answers as to why gallese was given parole with his history of violencelebel said she understands the ' principles of social re - insertion , ' but the parole board ' s ' guiding principle is above and beyond all else the safety … of the public , ' montreal gazette reports . she also questioned whether members of the parole board are ' sufficiently equipped ' at determining such cases . this echoes revelations from past parole board members who say changes within the federal government in 2017 resulted in the majority of board members being replaced with people who had no prior experience . ' if you don ' t have experienced board members and just new people , some mistakes can happen , some issues can happen , ' david blackburn , a former board member , told ctv news . of the incident , minister bill blair sent condolences to the family . ' in its september 2019 decision , the parole board explicitly opposed letting the accused visit massage parlours during his release , ' a statement read . sex work advocates don ' t believe the parole board adequately measured gallese ' s risk of re - offence well enough . sandra wesley , an advocate who runs stella , a non - profit by sex workers for sex workers , said the decision also did not question gallese ' s entitlement to women ' s bodies and sex workers should have been aware of his re - intergration into the public . but the blame cannot be placed solely on the parole board , wesley said . ' it is very obvious that criminalization of sex work facilitated the violence of this man , ' she said . wesley warns that if the stigma around sex work isn ' t solved , ' we know that marylène ( pictured ) is not the last death . there ’ s going to be another one and another one . in canada , selling sex is not a criminal offense , but in 2014 bill - c - 36 made advertising and purchasing sex illegal . the legal complexities surrounding sex work make reporting abuse and other violence difficult . wesley said : ' anyone who helps a sex worker work is committing an offence , so if they were to announce ( abuse ) to police , the outcome would be that the owners and receptionists ( of parlours ) would get arrested . ' ' clients would get arrested , so that ’ s a loss of income for the sex worker . if this wasn ’ t criminalized it would be easy to send ( gallese ) back to jail sooner . ' wesley warns that if the stigma around sex work isn ' t solved , ' we know that marylène is not the last death . there ’ s going to be another one and another one . ' 
__label__relevant social worker aims for black men to address ' something that ' s not talked about ' mario rolle wants nova scotia ' s black community to break the code of silence surrounding domestic violence . he also wants black men to start accessing the special court in nova scotia that specifically addresses the problem . " it ' s something that ' s not talked about , " said rolle , a halifax clinical social worker . domestic violence courts run in sydney and halifax . the aim of the court is to support healthier relationships and help protect survivors and families from future abuse . in this court , the accused can start counselling after accepting responsibility , usually in the form of a guilty plea , and must be willing to accept responsibility for their actions , instead of waiting months or even years for a resolution . rolle often does work in the courts , in particular , domestic violence court . part of his job includes advocating for black men in the justice system . he said that when black men do go through the domestic violence court , they usually have white partners . " it ' s never black women , black men . you never see it because the women , the black women , are not talking , " rolle said . ' no one taught them how to be men ' starting next month , through the nova scotia association of black social workers , rolle is co - ordinating a series of six workshops to encourage black men and black boys to take an active role in ending violence against women . he will have two facilitators . " you know a lot of these men grow up in poverty , " rolle said . " no one taught them how to be men . no one taught them how … not to disrespect women . " we can help them , we can help educate them . " the workshops , which will start in dartmouth and later expand to halifax and truro , will include discussions on the history of domestic violence , coping strategies , relationship building , prevention and mental health . they will also include african holistic dance movements with the men and boys to help them release anger and stress . a counsellor and an artist will also be brought in to do art therapy . absent from domestic violence courtas well , the co - ordinator of the domestic violence court and a representative from halifax regional police victims ' services will visit . " a lot of our guys don ' t apply for domestic violence court … they just go through regular court , " rolle said . " i want these guys to know the process . i want these guys to see the people that are part of the system when it comes to domestic violence . " joyce marsman is president of the women ' s institute of the african united baptist association of nova scotia . ( submitted by craig states ) joyce marsman , president of the women ' s institute of the african united baptist association , which has addressed the issue of domestic violence in black communities , welcomes the latest workshops . " there ' s such a problem right now with a lot of the young black men , and i think the role models , they should sit down and talk to … the ones that get themselves in trouble and are doing things , " marsman said . dawn ferris , executive director the cumberland county transition house association also known as autumn house , said these type of programs make a difference . autumn house is for women and children escaping domestic violence . it is the only shelter in nova scotia that has a full - time program for men who abuse . up to 50 men attend the 20 - week program each year . although autumn house does not have statistics for the men once they finish , ferris believes in the work the organization does . " we fundamentally believe that people are raised in environments that may be not the best , " she said . " and for whatever happens we don ' t believe that any little boy says , ' boy , i wish i could grow up and hurt the women i love . ' " but life happens , trauma happens , lots of things happen to a man that ' ll make him live a life that ' s maybe outside of his core values . " and so when you can bring a man , or a young man , into the realization that they ' re living outside of their core values we believe that that makes a difference to their families . " more top stories
__label__no_relevant here ’ s who lost jobs in the pandemic , and who needs support the covid - 19 crisis has caused unprecedented job losses across canada , and b . c . has not been spared . between february and may almost 590 , 000 b . c . workers lost their jobs or more than half their hours — 23 per cent of all workers employed in february . despite a slight recovery of jobs in may and june , the scale of job losses and disruptions far exceed those seen in typical recessions . announcements , events & more from tyee and select partners this fall , an invitation to fight loneliness in your community in september , people all over bc are meeting to talk about what ’ s on their minds . you should join them . while all sectors of the economy have been affected , the labour market hit has worsened existing inequalities . lower - paid workers in part - time , temporary and more precarious jobs were much more likely to lose their jobs or the majority of their hours than those in higher - paid , more secure jobs . younger workers , recent immigrants , women — particularly mothers of younger children — and workers who lack the protection of a union were hardest hit . understanding the highly unequal impacts of the current crisis on b . c . workers is crucial in designing effective and equitable solutions as we look to rebuild the provincial economy . public investments in the recovery must promote job creation in sectors and positions that employ the types of workers who suffered the worst labour market impacts . this will require significant investments in programs that enable all british columbians to fully participate in the economy by expanding access to affordable , safe child care and seniors care , and by enabling unemployed and underemployed workers to access low - cost skill development opportunities . the following eight charts show just how unequal the jobs impacts of the pandemic have been in b . c . 1 . low - wage workers were significantly more likely to lose their jobs or the majority of their hours . the job losses and cuts in hours resulting from the pandemic have been felt across the income ladder . however , they have been far more severe for lower - wage workers . half of b . c . workers who earned minimum wage or slightly above ( the bottom wage 10 per cent ) lost their jobs or hours , compared to fewer than one in 10 among higher - paid workers ( $29 to $48 per hour ) . half of all b . c . ’ s job losses were concentrated in the lowest - paid 20 per cent of workers ( under $17 per hour ) . these workers are disproportionately women , racialized and indigenous and recent immigrants . only four per cent of bc ’ s total job losses were shouldered by those in the top 40 per cent of the wage distribution ( earning over $29 per hour ) . the heavy impact on workers at the lower end of the income ladder isn ’ t surprising given the industries most disrupted by the pandemic . three - quarters of those who lost their jobs between february and may were employed in one of five industries : accommodation and food services , retail , construction , information , culture and recreation and a sector called “ other services , ” which includes personal services , repair and maintenance , domestic workers ( including nannies , cleaners and gardeners ) and most charities and non - profits . in addition , 43 per cent of the b . c . workers who lost the majority of their hours between february and may worked in one of these five industries . 2 . non - unionized workers were much harder hit . more than a quarter of non - unionized workers lost their jobs or the majority of their hours compared to only eight per cent of unionized workers . unionized workers were also much more likely to see reductions in hours than outright job losses . this is hardly surprising since unionization and collective bargaining tends to offer better workplace protections , and the hardest - hit sectors have lower unionization rates . expanding access to unionization for lower - paid , precarious workers could improve job security and protections to b . c . ’ s most vulnerable workers and should be a key plank of the recovery . 3 . young workers , particularly young women , saw staggering job losses . workers under 25 in b . c . were three times as likely as workers aged 25 to 54 to suffer job losses , with one in three young worker jobs ( 34 per cent ) evaporating between february and may . however , the average job loss among youth hides enormous gender differences . young women under 25 experienced by far the worst job losses with a 41 - per - cent drop in employment compared to 27 per cent for their male peers . the covid - 19 recession has been dubbed a she - cession because women were much more likely than men to lose their job in march . while layoffs among men caught up in april , men have seen a faster jobs recovery in may . in b . c . , women saw a 16 - per - cent decline in employment between february and may compared to a decline of 12 per cent for men . further , women were more likely to lose their jobs , whereas men were more likely to have the majority of their hours cut while remaining employed . this difference was particularly pronounced among younger workers . 4 . one in three recent immigrants lost their job . among recent immigrants in b . c . — those who have had permanent resident status in canada for less than 10 years—the magnitude of job losses was nearly three times as high as those experienced by more established immigrants and non - immigrants . immigrant women were more likely to lose their jobs than immigrant men , who were more likely to experience cuts in their hours but keep their jobs . 5 . mothers saw significantly larger job losses than fathers , especially those with young children . school and child - care closures during the pandemic have imposed additional challenges for workers with children . among working parents 25 to 54 , those with children under six were much more likely to experience losses in jobs and hours — mothers in particular . ( working parents make up about 43 per cent of the total b . c . workforce aged 25 to 54 . ) although the government introduced job - protected unpaid leave for parents who needed to care for their children while schools and child - care providers were closed , a significant share of mothers with children under six working in february appear to have lost their jobs ( 16 per cent ) . in addition , parents of younger children were more likely to have lost the majority of their hours than their peers . going into the pandemic , women in b . c . already had a lower workforce participation rate than men and the gap was largest for women with children under six due to the lack of access to quality , affordable child care in our province . prioritizing safe and accessible child care for working parents over the summer and fall is essential if we are going to rebuild the province ’ s economy and ensure young families can weather the recession . 6 . single parents with young children were even harder hit . half of b . c . ’ s working single parents with children under six lost their jobs or hours . this group was small to begin with due to lack of affordable child - care spaces . not surprisingly , single parents were much more likely to experience job losses than those in two - parent families where child care responsibilities can be shared . children in single - parent families are already at much higher risk of poverty than their peers in two - parent families , and the gap is likely to grow unless b . c . makes significant investments in expanding access to safe , affordable child care . even if most of b . c . ’ s unemployed single parents are receiving the cerb for now , it is not at all clear that they will qualify for employment insurance once cerb is phased out in the fall . even if they do , their benefits may be too low to keep them out of poverty . 7 . workers in small businesses were more likely to lose their jobs . when a pandemic hits , working moms pay the price read morenearly half of all b . c . job losses between february and may were concentrated among those working for small employers ( fewer than 20 staff ) , even though only 20 per cent of workers were employed by a small business . this is hardly surprising . small businesses and non - profit employers are less likely to have operational reserves to absorb the costs of pandemic closures or slowdowns — even with wage subsidies — and have been forced to lay off more of their workers than large corporations . not included in the chart above are self - employed workers . about half of b . c . ’ s self - employed workers are unincorporated and have no employees . this group reported very high losses in hours , with more than one in three losing the majority of their hours . it is critically important to continue monitoring the jobs recovery for this particularly vulnerable group of workers as the cerb is phased out , because they will not qualify for existing employment insurance programs . 8 . indigenous men are more likely to have lost jobs . statistics about job loss among indigenous workers are only available in the form of three - month moving averages , and there ’ s no data on reduced hours . but comparing the average employment numbers for march , april and may with those from december , january and february can help us pinpoint which groups and regions were hit harder by the job market losses , although these numbers should be viewed with some caution . indigenous workers were slightly more likely to lose their jobs than non - indigenous workers in b . c . , particularly indigenous men . indigenous and non - indigenous women experienced similar rates of job loss , higher than non - indigenous men . 
__label__no_relevant bernard laryea motivates youth to pursue excellence with his toronto youth program dare to be differentmotivational speaker , youth worker and entrepreneur bernard laryea remembers a time when he felt there was something missing in his life . the ghanian - born immigrant describes it as “ a passion that was burning inside him , ” but was “ trapped . ” it was his desire to give back and inspire others in his new country . laryea , who came to canada in 2005 at the age of 14 , and later studied at seneca college in toronto to become a chemical lab technician , says this passion was awoken after the death of his parents . laryea explains that his mom worked three jobs in ghana to support her children and extended family , but even though she was struggling , she always seemed to have something to give . “ she used to say , you don ’ t need to have a billion dollars to help people in need . support your family and share the rest with others in need and give while you ’ re going through your struggles , ” he says . losing his mom inspired laryea to follow in her footsteps , and started to look for opportunities to help others . looking for opportunities to give back to his communityhe became a member of creating global citizens ( cgc ) , starting as a participant and taking part in various leadership training activities , fundraising and even travelling back to ghana to work with schools and community groups . he was also one the members who started a young men ’ s program at rathburn area youth community centre to help support young people with cooking and life skills programming . in 2013 , laryea co - founded young entrepreneurs in toronto , an organization that helps youth develop entrepreneurial skills . the purpose of the group is to connect young , aspiring entrepreneurs in the gta with business owners in the community . once a month , 60 to 100 young people across toronto gather to share their stories and interact with entrepreneurs in their local community . “ entrepreneurs come to speak about their businesses , to share their ups and downs , and what it takes to be an entrepreneur , ” says laryea . the one rule at the meetings is that no idea is a stupid one . “ any ideas can make a great business case with the right support and the right mentorship attached to it , ” says laryea . through his work with youth in his community , laryea was troubled by something . he would often hear youth blaming their misfortunes on others . “ they were blaming things on the government or their parents , saying oh , the mpp isn ’ t doing this or that . they were waiting for something to happen in their community , waiting for someone to say we have funds for you . and there was a lot of pointing fingers , ” he says . laryea was reminded of something his late father used to tell him . “ when you point one finger at someone , two of them point back at you , ” he says . mentorship program to empower youththat ’ s when , in 2016 , laryea started the non - profit organization dare to be different , a mentorship program to empower youth in marginalized communities to change their mindset and improve their situation . “ if you want things to change for you , your mindset has to change , ” says laryea . through mentorship and networking opportunities , dare to be different encourages youth to adopt a positive mindset , to surround themselves with people who support their dreams and encourage them to live their best lives . “ if you hang out with nine broken people , eventually you become the 10th one , ” says laryea . what started as a six - month program is now a two - year program mentoring 15 youth , all funded by laryea himself . youth are paired with a mentor and have one - on - one sessions where they talk about the positive changes they want to make in their life — finding a job , starting a business or finding access to resources to help them live their best lives . sometimes the goals are as simple as opening a savings account at a bank . “ with each goal that is accomplished , it brings a sense of purpose , ” says laryea . laryea says his purpose is fulfilled when he sees youth coming through the program become independent thinkers , leaders and role models for others . “ the goal is that the way the youth came in will not be the same way they leave the program . they will see things from a different perspective . ” 
__label__no_relevant homecare services company offers caregiver services and career opportunities for immigrants chinese - born mary lee heads up homecare group canada inc . chinese - born mary lee is the successful entrepreneur behind homecare group canada inc . , providing high - quality homecare services for clients , while offering hands - on professional training programs for those who want to be a nanny , a live - in caregiver or a live - out caregiver . lee started her business a decade ago , and it has blossomed into a multimillion - dollar enterprise with thousands of caregivers hired to work for diverse clients across canada . a new life , a new businessafter university in china and a few years in southeast asia , lee arrived in toronto in 2003 as a new immigrant . like other newcomers , she faced many challenges — language barriers , cultural differences , unemployment , no connections with the local community and so on . she decided to get some more education , and went to george brown college and studied hotel management , a two - year program . meanwhile , she was a dedicated and efficient mom and wife , working tirelessly to take care of her two - year old daughter with her husband . “ life is not easy , and i understand how difficult it can be for immigrant women who need to work or study and who also need to take care of kids and parents , ” says lee . “ starting a homecare business can help busy women and particularly immigrant women . ” over the last three decades the need for childcare has grown steadily , coinciding with the rise in employment rates among women . but homecare services are not just for children ; they are also in demand for seniors , new mothers or other adults with rehabilitation or special needs . that gave lee the idea to start her first business . in 2010 , she started her first company in canada , now known as homecare group canada inc . , providing homecare services for canadians and immigrant families . quality work is key to successas an entrepreneur , lee ’ s biggest challenge was how to effectively manage her caregivers . clients wanted her to ensure that caregivers would be on time , shifts not missed and that they ’ re being billed fairly . to build and maintain the trust between clients and caregivers , lee spent a lot of time providing training and recruiting high - quality caregivers from asia . step by step , she developed a reputation for staying on top of every detail . also , it ’ s equally important to keep reliable records for both basic client information and shift history , so as to keep clients and caregivers organized and easily accessed . empowering her caregivers and clientslee has recruited thousands of caregivers in the past decade , providing them with training sessions , support and professional development so they will succeed in their homecare roles . she encourages caregivers to adopt a positive mindset and to do their best for the services they provide . in 2015 , lee received a new business award at the 10th annual chinese business excellence award . “ we try to make it easy for our clients to collaborate with us , ” says lee . “ we do everything we can to establish and maintain trust with clients and caregivers . i am happy when i see them happy , and this is what i am looking for . ” 
__label__no_relevant our parents , the russian spies | the world weekly our parents , the russian spies | the world weeklytim foley turned 20 on 27 june 2010 . to celebrate , his parents took him and his younger brother alex out for lunch at an indian restaurant not far from their home in cambridge , massachusetts . both brothers were born in canada , but for the past decade the family had lived in the us . the boys ’ father , donald heathfield , had studied in paris and at harvard , and now had a senior role at a consultancy firm based in boston . their mother , tracey foley , had spent many years focused on raising her children , before taking a job as a real estate agent . to those who knew them , they seemed a very ordinary american family , albeit with canadian roots and a penchant for foreign travel . both brothers were fascinated by asia , a favoured holiday destination , and the parents encouraged their sons to be inquisitive about the world : alex was only 16 , but had just returned from a six - month student exchange in singapore . after a buffet lunch , the four returned home and opened a bottle of champagne to toast tim reaching his third decade . the brothers were tired ; they had thrown a small house party the night before to mark alex ’ s return from singapore , and tim planned to go out later . after the champagne , he went upstairs to message his friends about the evening ’ s plans . there came a knock at the door , and tim ’ s mother called up that his friends must have come early , as a surprise . at the door , she was met by a different kind of surprise altogether : a team of armed , black - clad men holding a battering ram . they streamed into the house , screaming , “ fbi ! ” another team entered from the back ; men dashed up the stairs , shouting at everyone to put their hands in the air . upstairs , tim had heard the knock and the shouting , and his first thought was that the police could be after him for underage drinking : nobody at the party the night before had been 21 , and boston police took alcohol regulations seriously . when he emerged on to the landing , it became clear the fbi was here for something far more serious . the two brothers watched , stunned , as their parents were put in handcuffs and driven away in separate black cars . tim and alex were left behind with a number of agents , who said they needed to begin a 24 - hour forensic search of the home ; they had prepared a hotel room for the brothers . one of the men told them their parents had been arrested on suspicion of being “ unlawful agents of a foreign government ” . alex presumed there had been some mistake – the wrong house , or a mix - up over his father ’ s consultancy work . donald travelled frequently for his job ; perhaps this had been confused with espionage . at worst , perhaps he had been tricked by an international client . even when the brothers heard on the radio a few days later that 10 russian spies had been rounded up across the us , in an fbi operation dubbed ghost stories , they remained sure there had been a terrible mistake . but the fbi had not made a mistake , and the truth was so outlandish , it defied comprehension . not only were their parents indeed russian spies , they were russians . the man and woman the boys knew as mom and dad really were their parents , but their names were not donald heathfield and tracey foley . those were canadians who had died long ago , as children ; their identities had been stolen and adopted by the boys ’ parents . their real names were andrei bezrukov and elena vavilova . they were both born in the soviet union , had undergone training in the kgb and been dispatched abroad as part of a soviet programme of deep - cover secret agents , known in russia as the “ illegals ” . after a slow - burning career building up an ordinary north american background , the pair were now active agents for the svr , the foreign spy agency of modern russia and a successor to the kgb . they , along with eight other agents , had been betrayed by a russian spy who had defected to the americans . the fbi indictment detailing their misdeeds was a catalogue of espionage cliches : dead drops , brush - pasts , coded messages and plastic bags stuffed with crisp dollar bills . the footage of a plane carrying the 10 touching down at vienna airport , to be swapped for four russians who had been held in russian prisons on charges of spying for the west , brought back memories of the cold war . the media had a field day with the bond - girl looks of 28 - year - old anna chapman , one of two russians arrested not to have pretended to be of western origin ; she worked as an international estate agent in manhattan . russia didn ’ t know whether to be embarrassed or emboldened : its agents had been busted , but what other country would think of mounting such a complex , slow - drip espionage operation in the first place ? for alex and tim , the geopolitics behind the spy swap was the least of their worries . the pair had grown up as ordinary canadians , and now discovered they were the children of russian spies . ahead of them was a long flight to moscow , and an even longer emotional and psychological journey . * * * nearly six years since the fbi raid , i meet alex in a cafe near the kiev railway station in moscow . he is now officially alexander vavilov ; his brother is timofei vavilov , though many of their friends still use their old surname , foley . alex is 21 , his still - boyish looks offset by a serious manner and businesslike clothes : black v - neck over a crisp white shirt . a gentle north american lilt and the careful aspiration of final consonants give him the unplaceable accent of those who have been schooled internationally – in paris , singapore and the us . these days , he speaks enough russian to order lunch , but is by no means fluent . he is studying in a european city and is here to visit his parents ; tim works in finance in asia . ( in the interests of privacy , both brothers have asked me not to reveal details about their working lives . ) since 2010 , they have made a conscious decision to avoid the media . they have agreed to talk to me now , alex explains , because they are fighting a legal battle to win back their canadian citizenship , stripped from them six years ago . they believe it is unfair and illegal that they are expected to answer for the sins of their parents , and have decided to tell their story for the first time . as we eat khachapuri , a georgian bread stuffed with gooey cheese , alex recalls the days after the raid . he and tim stayed up until the early hours in the hotel room the fbi had provided , trying to understand what was going on . when they went home the next day , they found every piece of electronic equipment , every photograph and document had been taken . the fbi ’ s search and seizure warrant lists 191 items removed from the foley / heathfield residence , including computers , mobile phones , photographs and medicines . they even took tim and alex ’ s playstation . news crews held a vigil outside ; the brothers sat inside with the blinds drawn , their phones and computers confiscated . early next morning tim snuck out to get online at the public library and try to find a lawyer for his parents . all the family bank accounts had been frozen , leaving the boys with just the money they had in their pockets and whatever they could borrow from friends . fbi agents drove them to an initial court hearing in boston , where their parents were informed of the charges . there was a brief meeting with their mother inside jail . alex tells me he did not ask her what she and his father were accused of . this seems surprising , i say : surely he must have been dying to ask ? “ here ’ s the thing : i knew that if i was going to testify in court , the less i knew , the better . i didn ’ t want to cloud my opinion with anything . i didn ’ t want to ask questions , because it was obvious people were listening , ” he says . a boisterous group of women are celebrating a birthday at the next table , and he raises his voice . “ i refused to let myself be convinced they were actually guilty of anything , because i realised the case would probably draw on for a long time . they were facing life in prison , and if i was to testify , i would have to completely believe they were innocent . ” the family had been planning a month - long summer break in paris , moscow and turkey ; their mother told them to escape the media circus and fly to russia . after a stopover in paris , alex and tim boarded a plane to moscow , unsure of what to expect on arrival . they had never been to russia before . “ it was a really terrifying moment , ” alex recalls . “ you ’ re sitting on the plane , you have a few hours to kill and you don ’ t know what ’ s coming . you just sit there and think and think . ” as the brothers disembarked , they were met at the plane door by a group of people who introduced themselves in english as colleagues of their parents . they told the brothers to trust them , and led them outside the terminal to a van . “ they showed us photos of our parents in their 20s in uniform , photos of them with medals . that was the moment when i thought , ‘ok , this is real . ’ until that moment , i ’ d refused to believe any of it was true , ” alex says . he and tim were taken to an apartment and told to make themselves at home ; one of their minders spent the next few days showing them around moscow ; they took them to museums , even the ballet . an uncle and a cousin the brothers had no idea existed paid a visit ; a grandmother also dropped by , but she spoke no english and the boys not a word of russian . it would be a few days before their parents would arrive , having admitted at a court hearing in new york on 8 july that they were russian nationals . an exchange was already in the offing , and they arrived in moscow , via vienna , on 9 july , still wearing the orange prison jumpsuits they had been given in america . my face must give away some of my amazement : how does a 16 - year - old process such an extraordinary turn of events ? alex smirks at me wryly . “ typical high school identity crisis , right ? ” alex and tim ’ s father was born andrei olegovich bezrukov , in krasnoyarsk region , in the heart of siberia . since his return to moscow in 2010 , he has given just a handful of interviews to russian media outlets , mainly concerning the more recent work he has done as a geopolitical analyst . details of his past , or that of his wife , elena vavilova , are scarce . alex tells me what he knows about his parents ’ recruitment , based on the little they have told him : “ they got recruited into it together , as a couple . they were promising , young , smart people , they were asked if they wanted to help their country and they said yes . they went through years of training and preparing . ” none of the 10 deportees has spoken publicly about their mission in the us , or their training by the svr or kgb . department s , which runs the illegals programme they were on , was the most secretive part of the kgb . one former “ illegal ” tells me his training in the late 1970s included two years in moscow with daily english lessons , taught by an american woman who had defected . he was also trained in other basics such as communicating in code and surveillance . all the training was done on a one - to - one basis : he never met other agents . the programme was the only one of its kind in international espionage . ( many assumed it had been stopped , until the 2010 fbi swoop . ) many intelligence agencies use agents operating without diplomatic cover ; some have recruited second - generation immigrants already living abroad , but the russians have been the only ones to train agents to pretend to be foreigners . canada was a common place for the illegals to go , to build up their “ legend ” of being an ordinary western citizen before being deployed to target countries , often the us or britain . during soviet times , the illegals had two main functions : to aid in communications between embassy kgb officers and their us sources ( an illegal would be less likely to be put under surveillance than a diplomat ) ; and to be sleeper cells for a potential “ special period ” – a war between the us and the soviet union . the illegals could then spring into action . the kgb sent the couple to canada in the 80s . in june 1990 , vavilova , under the assumed identity of tracey foley , gave birth to tim at the women ’ s college hospital in toronto . his first memories are of attending a french - language school in the city and visiting the warehouse of his dad ’ s company , diapers direct , a nappy delivery service . it was hardly james bond , but the work of an agent has always been more tortoise than hare – years spent painstakingly building up the legend . andrei bezrukov already had a degree from a soviet university , but “ donald heathfield ” had no educational records . between 1992 and 1995 , he studied for a bachelor ’ s degree in international economics at york university in toronto . in 1994 , alex was born ; a year later the family moved to paris . we don ’ t know whether this was on the orders of the svr , but it seems a safe assumption . donald studied for an mba at the école des ponts and the family lived frugally in a small flat not far from the eiffel tower ; both brothers shared the only bedroom while the parents slept on the sofa . as bezrukov and vavilova built up their story , the country that had recruited and trained them ceased to exist . the ideology of communism had failed ; the fearsome spy agency that had dispatched agents across the globe was discredited and renamed . under boris yeltsin , post - soviet russia seemed on the verge of becoming a failed state . but in 1999 , as the family planned a move from france to the us , a new man entered the kremlin who himself had a kgb background . in the subsequent years , he would work to make the kgb ’ s successors important and respected again . with the legend of a hardworking , well - educated canadian perfected over the years , heathfield got into harvard university ’ s kennedy school of government towards the end of that year , and was ready to deploy as an agent of the svr . he would be spying not for the soviet system that had trained him , but for the new russia of vladimir putin . heathfield and foley sent their sons to a bilingual french - english school in boston , so they could maintain their french and stay in touch with european culture . they could not teach their children about russia ; perhaps the emphasis on french was a way of ensuring their children were not “ ordinary ” americans without ringing alarm bells . at home , the family spoke a mixture of english and french . ( an online video of bezrukov , appearing in his post - deportation role as a political analyst , shows him speaking smooth north american with the faintest of twangs . ) when he completed his postgraduate degree at harvard , heathfield got a job working for global partners , a business development consultancy . i speak to tim on a sunday afternoon , talking to me on skype from his kitchen . he has the same facial features and careful parting as his younger brother , but his hair is blond rather than dark . looking back on his youth , he tells me his father worked hard , making frequent business trips . he encouraged his sons to read and educate themselves about the world , and “ was like a best friend to us ” . foley , tim says , was a “ soccer mom ” , picking her sons up from school and taking them to sports practice . when the boys were in their teens , she started work as a real estate agent . in 2008 , tim got a place at george washington university , in dc , to study international relations . he focused on asia , taking mandarin lessons and spending a semester in beijing . the same year , the family became naturalised americans , with us passports in addition to their canadian nationality . the brothers would never live in canada again ; alex had been one when they left toronto and tim only five – but both felt canadian . the family returned often to ski , and when the boys went on school trips from boston to montreal , they took pride in showing the other students around their “ home ” country . alex made a big fuss about his canadian background , because “ at high school you always want to go counterculture ” . tim describes their childhood as “ absolutely normal ” : the family was close and spent time together at weekends ; his parents had many friends . he has no recollection of them discussing russia or the soviet union ; they never ate russian food , and the closest tim says he came to a russian was a polite boy from kazakhstan at school . their parents did not discuss their childhood much , but this was how they had always been and the boys had little reason to question it . “ i never had anything close to a suspicion regarding my parents , ” alex says . in fact , he often felt disappointed by how boring and mundane they were : “ it seemed all my friends ’ parents led much more exciting and successful lives . ” little did he know . bezrukov and vavilova had been put under fbi surveillance soon after they moved to the us , probably because of a mole in the russian agency . excerpts from their 2010 indictment suggest the couple lived with a level of intrigue most people would assume exists only within the pages of a spy novel . one paragraph recounts an intercepted communication from moscow centre ( svr headquarters ) , explaining how vavilova should plan for a trip back to her motherland . she was to fly to paris and take the train to vienna , where she would pick up a fake british passport . “ very important : 1 . sign your passport on page 32 . train yourself to be able to reproduce your signature when necessary… in the passport you ’ ll get a memo with recommendation . pls , destroy the memo after reading . be well . ” their father , meanwhile , was using his work as a consultant to penetrate us political and business circles . it is not clear whether he managed to access classified material , but fbi intercepts reported a number of contacts with former and current american officials . in the few public remarks bezrukov has made about his job , he makes it sound more like that of a thinktank analyst than a super - spy . “ intelligence work is not about risky escapades , ” he told expert magazine in 2012 . “ if you behave like bond , you ’ ll last half a day , maybe a day . even if there was an imaginary safe where all the secrets are kept , by tomorrow half of them will be outdated and useless . the best kind of intelligence is to understand what your opponent will think tomorrow , not find out what he thought yesterday . ” bezrukov and vavilova communicated with the svr using digital steganography : they would post images online that contained messages hidden in the pixels , encoded using an algorithm written for them by the svr . a message the fbi believes was sent in 2007 to bezrukov by svr headquarters was decoded as follows : “ got your note and signal . no info in our files about e . f . , bt , dk , rr . agree with your proposal to use ‘farmer ’ to start building network of students in dc . your relationship with ‘parrot ’ looks very promising as a valid source of info from us power circles . to start working on him professionally we need all available details on his background , current position , habits , contacts , opportunities , etc . ” way back in 2001 , nearly a decade before her arrest , the fbi had searched a safe - deposit box belonging to tracey foley . there they found photographs of her in her 20s , one of which bore the cyrillic imprint of the soviet company that had printed it . the family home had been bugged , possibly for many years . the fbi knew the couple ’ s real identities , even if their own children did not , but the americans preferred to keep an eye on the russian spy ring , rather than make a move . why the fbi finally acted is unclear . one suggestion is that alexander poteyev , the svr officer believed to have betrayed the group , felt his cover was blown . he reportedly fled russia in the days before the arrests ; in 2011 , a russian court sentenced him to 25 years in prison for treason in absentia . another possibility is that one of the group was getting close to sensitive information . whatever the reason , in june 2010 the fbi decided to wrap up operation ghost stories and bust the russian spy ring . i speak to tim and alex many times , in person , over skype and email . they are not uncomfortable talking about their experiences , but neither do they enjoy it much . initially , they want to speak only about their court case in canada ; but gradually they open up , answering all my questions about their extraordinary family life . i have to admit there are some details that bother me . did they really never suspect a thing ? in 2012 , the wall street journal reported that unnamed us officials claimed an fbi bug placed at the family ’ s boston home had picked up the parents revealing their true identities to tim long before the arrest . furthermore , the officials said , his parents had told tim they wanted to groom him as a russian spy . a second - generation spy would be a much more impressive asset than first - generation illegals , who had built up personas that were solid but not impregnable to background checks . tim , according to the unnamed officials , agreed he would travel to moscow for svr training and even “ saluted mother russia ” . tim strenuously denies the story , insisting it was a total fabrication . “ why would a kid who grew up his whole life believing himself to be canadian , decide to risk life in prison for a country he had never been to nor had any ties to ? furthermore , why would my parents take a similar risk in telling their teenage son their identities ? ” the claim that he saluted mother russia is “ just as ridiculous as it sounds ” , tim says . he would be happy to answer the allegations in court , but it is impossible to argue with anonymous sources . when contacted by the guardian , the fbi declined to comment on the wall street journal article . there was another thing that bothered me : was it really just coincidence that the family had planned to travel to russia that summer , and that the brothers therefore had russian visas ? yes , alex says . “ it was very much my idea to go to russia . we had this world map at home and when you looked at the pins on it , you could see we ’ d been almost everywhere but russia , so i was very curious and i was pushing for it . it was just going to be one part of our summer trip . ” in hindsight , surely , that summer trip to paris , turkey and moscow must have looked rather different . when the family were reunited in moscow in july 2010 , did the boys ask their parents what the plan had been ? had they intended to reveal everything ? or were they really going to spend a week in moscow pretending not to understand a word spoken around them ? “ i actually think that was the plan , ” alex says . “ that we would travel to russia , and maybe they might go and meet people without us . but i don ’ t think there was a plan to tell us anything . ” tim agrees . if their parents had revealed the truth , it would have made tim and alex a huge liability ; “ as professionals ” , he says , it ’ s unlikely they would have taken the risk . they doubt their parents ever planned to tell them about their real identities . “ honestly , ” tim says , “ i really don ’ t think so . it sounds strange , but yeah . ” both brothers tell me they remember , as young children , seeing their grandparents . where ? on vacation , alex says , “ somewhere in europe ” ; he can ’ t remember where , exactly . asked if he was sure the people he met were his real grandparents , he says , “ i think so . ” were they speaking russian ? “ i was really young , i have no idea , ” he says firmly . i raise the question with tim , who would have been older . he remembers seeing his grandparents every few years until he was around 11 , when they disappeared from his life . “ obviously , now when i think back on it , i kind of understand how it worked . if i had seen them when i was older , i would have realised that they don ’ t speak english – they don ’ t seem very canadian . ” at christmas , the boys would receive gifts marked “ from grandparents ” . their parents told them they lived in alberta , far from toronto , which was why they never saw them . occasionally , new photographs would arrive of the grandparents against a snowy backdrop ; it helped that the climates of alberta and siberia are not so different . if tim and alex ’ s story sounds eerily familiar to fans of the americans , the television drama about a kgb couple living in the us with their two children , that ’ s because it ’ s partly based on them . the show is set in the 1980s , providing a cold war backdrop , but the 2010 spy round - up served as an inspiration . the show ’ s creator , joe weisberg , trained to be a cia case officer in the early 1990s and , when i speak to him on the phone , tells me he always wanted to put family at the heart of the plot . “ one of the interesting things i saw when i worked at the cia was people lying to their children . if you have young children , you can ’ t tell them you work for the cia . and then , at some point , you have to pick an age and a time , and they find out that they ’ ve been lied to for most of their lives . it ’ s a difficult moment . ” when i meet alex in moscow , he has just finished watching the first season . ( he had started on previous occasions , but found it too difficult ; he and tim joked that they should sue the creators . ) his parents like the show , he tells me . “ obviously it ’ s glamorised , all this killing people and action everywhere . but it reminded them of when they were young agents , and how they felt about being in a strange new place . ” watching it , alex says , has made him more curious : what set his parents off on this path , and why ? * * * in 2010 , the spies were welcomed back to russia as heroes . after a debriefing at svr headquarters , bezrukov , vavilova and the other deportees met with then - president dmitry medvedev to receive medals for their service . later , they met with putin , and the group reportedly sang the patriotic soviet song from where the motherland begins . the authorities put on a tour : the agents and their families travelled to st petersburg , lake baikal in siberia and sochi on the black sea . the idea was to show off modern russia , and to provide them with an opportunity to bond . do they still meet up , i ask alex . “ from time to time , ” he says . he and tim were the only adolescents ; of the four couples arrested , two had younger children , while another had adult sons . even so , the other families were probably the only people in the world who could even begin to understand their surreal situation . bezrukov and vavilova found themselves back in a very different russia from the one they had left . the oldest of the agents had been retired from active espionage work for a decade , alex says , and barely remembered how to speak russian . the group were told they would no longer work for the svr , but jobs were found for them in state banks and oil companies . anna chapman was given a television series and now has her own fashion line . bezrukov was given a job at mgimo , a prestigious moscow university , and has written a book on the geopolitical challenges facing russia . tim and alex were given russian passports at the end of december 2010 ; suddenly , they became timofei and alexander vavilov . the names were “ completely new , foreign and unpronounceable for us ” , tim says . “ a real identity crisis , ” he adds with a hint of bitterness . unable to return to university for his final year , he managed to transfer to a russian university and complete his degree there , before doing an mba in london . alex was less lucky . he finished high school at the british international school in moscow , but did not want to stay in russia . he applied to university in canada , but was told he would first have to apply for a new birth certificate , and then a citizenship certificate ; only then could he renew his canadian passport . in 2012 he was admitted to the university of toronto , and applied for a four - year student visa on his russian passport . the visa was issued and he planned to depart for canada on 2 september . but four days before he was due to leave , as he was packing his bags and exchanging emails with his future roommate , he received a phone call from the canadian embassy in moscow demanding he come for an urgent interview . the meeting was hostile ; there were a lot of questions about his life and his parents . the visa was annulled before his eyes , and he lost his university place . alex has since been rejected for french and british visas . twice , he has been accepted to study at the london school of economics , but both times did not get a visa . eventually , he was able to get a visa to study elsewhere in europe ; tim travels mainly in asia , where many countries can be visited visa - free on a russian passport . if tim and alex ’ s story sounds eerily familiar to fans of the americans , the television drama about a kgb couple living in the us with their two children , that ’ s because it ’ s partly based on them . the show is set in the 1980s , providing a cold war backdrop , but the 2010 spy round - up served as an inspiration . the show ’ s creator , joe weisberg , trained to be a cia case officer in the early 1990s and , when i speak to him on the phone , tells me he always wanted to put family at the heart of the plot . “ one of the interesting things i saw when i worked at the cia was people lying to their children . if you have young children , you can ’ t tell them you work for the cia . and then , at some point , you have to pick an age and a time , and they find out that they ’ ve been lied to for most of their lives . it ’ s a difficult moment . ” when i meet alex in moscow , he has just finished watching the first season . ( he had started on previous occasions , but found it too difficult ; he and tim joked that they should sue the creators . ) his parents like the show , he tells me . “ obviously it ’ s glamorised , all this killing people and action everywhere . but it reminded them of when they were young agents , and how they felt about being in a strange new place . ” watching it , alex says , has made him more curious : what set his parents off on this path , and why ? * * * in 2010 , the spies were welcomed back to russia as heroes . after a debriefing at svr headquarters , bezrukov , vavilova and the other deportees met with then - president dmitry medvedev to receive medals for their service . later , they met with putin , and the group reportedly sang the patriotic soviet song from where the motherland begins . the authorities put on a tour : the agents and their families travelled to st petersburg , lake baikal in siberia and sochi on the black sea . the idea was to show off modern russia , and to provide them with an opportunity to bond . do they still meet up , i ask alex . “ from time to time , ” he says . he and tim were the only adolescents ; of the four couples arrested , two had younger children , while another had adult sons . even so , the other families were probably the only people in the world who could even begin to understand their surreal situation . bezrukov and vavilova found themselves back in a very different russia from the one they had left . the oldest of the agents had been retired from active espionage work for a decade , alex says , and barely remembered how to speak russian . the group were told they would no longer work for the svr , but jobs were found for them in state banks and oil companies . anna chapman was given a television series and now has her own fashion line . bezrukov was given a job at mgimo , a prestigious moscow university , and has written a book on the geopolitical challenges facing russia . tim and alex were given russian passports at the end of december 2010 ; suddenly , they became timofei and alexander vavilov . the names were “ completely new , foreign and unpronounceable for us ” , tim says . “ a real identity crisis , ” he adds with a hint of bitterness . unable to return to university for his final year , he managed to transfer to a russian university and complete his degree there , before doing an mba in london . alex was less lucky . he finished high school at the british international school in moscow , but did not want to stay in russia . he applied to university in canada , but was told he would first have to apply for a new birth certificate , and then a citizenship certificate ; only then could he renew his canadian passport . in 2012 he was admitted to the university of toronto , and applied for a four - year student visa on his russian passport . the visa was issued and he planned to depart for canada on 2 september . but four days before he was due to leave , as he was packing his bags and exchanging emails with his future roommate , he received a phone call from the canadian embassy in moscow demanding he come for an urgent interview . the meeting was hostile ; there were a lot of questions about his life and his parents . the visa was annulled before his eyes , and he lost his university place . alex has since been rejected for french and british visas . twice , he has been accepted to study at the london school of economics , but both times did not get a visa . eventually , he was able to get a visa to study elsewhere in europe ; tim travels mainly in asia , where many countries can be visited visa - free on a russian passport . the brothers ’ battle to regain canadian citizenship is not just about logistics . moscow is not a city that embraces newcomers , and neither of them feels particularly russian . “ i feel like i have been stripped of my own identity for something i had nothing to do with , ” alex tells me . both are keen to work in asia for the time being , but want to move to canada when they feel ready to start families . more than anything , their canadian identity is the last straw they have left to grasp on to , after so much of the rest of their previous reality fell away . “ i lived for 20 years believing that i was canadian and i still believe i am canadian , nothing can change that , ” tim wrote in his affidavit to the toronto court . “ i do not have any attachment to russia , i do not speak the language , i do not know many friends there , i have not lived there for any extended periods of time and i do not want to live there . ” everyone who is born in canada is eligible for canadian citizenship , with one exception : those who are born to employees of foreign governments . but the brothers ’ toronto - based lawyer , hadayt nazami , argues that it is ridiculous to apply the provision to their case ; the whole point of the law , he says , is to prevent those who don ’ t have the responsibilities of citizenship from enjoying its privileges . ultimately , the court seems to be operating as much on emotional as on legal grounds , possibly with the wall street journal story about tim ’ s apparent recruitment at the back of its mind . but even if the brothers knew about their parents ’ activities ( and there is no hard evidence of this ) , i wondered what the court expected of them . what is a 16 - year - old who finds out he is the child of russian spies supposed to do ? call the fbi ? tim and alex have been through many months of questioning themselves and their identities , and of wondering whether they should be angry with their parents . they don ’ t want their childhood to define them as they grow older . many of their close friends know , but most of their casual acquaintances don ’ t . when asked where they are from , the default response for both is “ canada ” . they remain friends with many people from their previous life in boston , though tim says some broke off contact , mainly those whose parents were friends with his parents and felt betrayed . while they have no wish to live in russia , both brothers visit moscow every few months to see their parents . i ask them how hard it has been to keep that relationship going . was there a confrontation ? tim and alex choose their words carefully ; they want to appear rational and pragmatic , rather than emotional , it seems . “ of course , there were some very difficult times , ” tim says . “ but if i get angry with them , it ’ s not going to lead to any beneficial outcomes . ” he admits it is sad that , even though he can now spend time with his grandparents , the language barrier means he will never know them properly . “ in terms of family and keeping this whole thing together , it really doesn ’ t work out well when you choose this kind of path , ” he says , his voice trailing off wistfully . alex tells me that he sometimes wonders why his parents decided to have children at all . “ they live their lives like everyone else , making choices along the way . i am glad they had a cause they believed in so strongly , but their choices mean i feel no connection to the country they risked their lives for . i wish the world wouldn ’ t punish me for their choices and actions . it has been deeply unjust . ” a number of times , alex tells me that it is not his place to judge his parents , but that six years ago he spent a long period wrestling with “ the big question ” of whether he hated them or felt betrayed . in the end , he came to one conclusion : that they were the same people who had raised him lovingly , whatever secrets they hid . 
__label__no_relevant p . a . welcomes new residents only two of the individuals arriving to the city are travelling as individuals . hobden noted that she doesn ’ t yet have the finalized paperwork for everyone set to immigrate , but at this moment her demographics show roughly 40 adults and 80 children . “ luckily everyone is not coming at the same time , ” hobden added when asked if it is difficult to accommodate the higher number of newcomers . “ we ’ ve been in contact with various landlords and rental agencies within the city and have been trying to get housing for them , the larger families especially , prior to their arrival . we ’ ve been pretty ok so far . right now we haven ’ t had a lot of problems finding housing . ” the ywca ’ s settlement services operates the settlement workers in schools ( swis ) program to help the families arriving enroll their children in school . as well , a language program is offered to families , which starts at pre - literacy levels . families participate in the program according to their ability to speak and understand english . “ we appreciate prince albert and how the service providers have been willing to help us out . the cooperative healthcare clinic has helped us get doctor ’ s appointments for our clients , the coronet hotel has helped us set up temporary accommodations . everyone seems to be willing to help out and partner with us , ” hobden said . “ we have a good team here who are willing to help out these families when they arrive . ” hobden added there are two particular arrivals the settlement services team is excited to welcome . “ one family , who the mother and children arrived just over a year ago , through war and what happened in their home country , the family was separated from the dad . he is one of the single individuals who will be arriving , after being separated from his family for seven years , ” hobden said . “ next month we have a child of a family , who was separated through war who will be reunited with her family . she is a minor and has been away from her parents , with other family members , for over five years . so , we are really excited to be a part of that reunification . ” hobden noted it can be difficult for families who immigrate to canada to come to terms with culture shock , especially those who have spent years living in refugee camps and in extremely different , often war - torn environments . a number of culture classes are offered for families who will soon call canada home , which are designed to teach traditions , canadian culture , and about common infrastructure like police and fire services . a call for volunteers has also been put out the public , according to hobden , who noted that it takes a massive amount of people and time to help integrate canada ’ s newest citizens into the community . –brady . bateman@jpbg . caon twitter : @thedigitalbirdy
__label__relevant how masturbation can help sexual assault survivors reclaim pleasure i ’ ll never be able to forget the evening of oct . 4 , 2014 . it was my 30th birthday party , an event planned by my best friend at the time with all our nearest and dearest . but it was also the night i was raped , and my entire world changed . before that night , as terrible as it sounds , i believed it could never happen to me—that i could never be the victim of sexual assault . although i had stood by numerous friends who recounted their stories to me—stories i supported—for some reason i felt untouchable . somehow i believed , even though the stats told me that one in three women and one in six men experience sexual violence in their lifetime , that i couldn ’ t also be part of those stats . however , looking back on it now , i see how naive and foolish that was ; the reality is , no one sits around expecting to become a victim . but after oct . 4 , like countless sexual assault victims before me , i avoided acknowledging the truth—out of shame , out of fear and largely due to my body ’ s trauma response . for queer individuals who have experienced sexual assault , it ’ s not uncommon to experience flashbacks , feel humiliated or disempowered . my emotions were overwhelming and they hit my body in waves . a lot of the time , my body felt hard to exist in . according to the centers for disease control and prevention ’ s ( cdc ) national intimate partner and sexual violence survey , 46 percent of bisexual women have been raped , compared to 17 percent of straight women . after spending months ignoring what happened , my emotions and feelings were too hard to ignore and they hit me like a ton of bricks . the best way to describe it was like a delicate flower being crumpled and tossed out . my libido went from normal to nonexistent , and for periods for time i wondered , “ am i worthy enough or deserved to feel pleasure again ? ” i struggled to try to engage or just be intimate with my loving , caring partner . it was starting to take its toll . that ’ s when i knew i had to face it : i had to learn how to take back my body , my mind and my sexuality . but how exactly ? masturbation , that ’ s how . masturbation has been used as a therapeutic tool since the 1970s to help trauma survivors and those experiencing sexual dysfunction . sex therapists—or somatic sex educators , who offer a trauma - informed , body - based form of healing can work with clients to develop a treatment plan based on their goals for attending sessions , with no hands - on interactions occurring between them . during sessions , clients can be asked to participate in various exercises including breathing , consensual touch ( above clothing ) , body mapping and meditation . when i first started exploring this type of treatment , it was pivotal for me—as it can be and for other queer individuals navigating trauma . not only can it help encourage self - exploration , but it can help break the negative associations that individuals may have with pleasure . professional sex therapist laurie mintz , a psychologist based out of florida , has used these practices in her own work . she believes that masturbation can be important for clients who need to feel empowered or rediscover themselves . “ the first thing masturbation does is teach you what feels good , and that you ’ re in control , ” mintz says , noting that masturbation for those experiencing trauma can help put them back in the driver ’ s seat . “ [it helps] them find what feels pleasurable but also to be able to stop when you begin to feel triggered . it can really help you reclaim your sexuality . ” in more recent years , mindful masturbation ( also referred to as masturbation meditation or tantric masturbation in other media ) has become more mainstream . mintz explains that mindful masturbation is exactly what it sounds like : learning how to be mindful in your body while you masturbate . “ mindfulness is , simply put , putting your mind and body in the same place and space and being able to notice when your mind inevitably wanders and bringing it back to your body . ” she believes that this practise can help folks be in the present—rather than trying to accomplish something else—and gives clients the space they need to become bodily immersed in something that is useful . when i decided to take the plunge and face my own sex - based trauma , i started working with a somatic sex educator . working alongside a somatic sex educator can differ from a sex therapist in various ways ; a therapist may look more into why something is happening , whereas a somatic sex educator might help you work on healing within your body using breath , sound , touch and movement to connect you to your body in a more erotic way . each week , i met with my somatic sex educator and we worked on body mapping , prompts on boundaries , consent and mindful masturbation . britta love , a somatic sex educator based out of new york , believes that working with an educator when doing this type of work can be helpful but is not necessary . “ all you need to do is set aside some time and stay connected to your sound , breath , touch and movement for the duration of your self - pleasuring . ” if you ’ re interested , you can incorporate tools like a journal to keep track of your orgasms or how your body feels , or even meditation apps like headspace or muse , the latter of which offers a meditation headband that can track your brainwaves . mindful masturbation is meant to increase awareness of what ’ s pleasurable for you , while encouraging a slower , more intentional approach to solo exploration . love explains that clients who are dealing with trauma will often seek out mindful masturbation to help them really feel in their bodies again . she adds that being present and being able to focus on what ’ s happening within you can be very helpful for someone dealing with trauma . most often , individuals will masturbate just to “ rub one out ” and get it done as soon as possible . but for love , it ’ s about showing individuals how to trust their bodies once again . “ a big trauma - informed piece , for me , is teaching clients how to be in their bodies and learn how to notice , trust and vocalize their desire or lack of desire , ” love explains , noting that touch through masturbation can allow people to experience a safe “ container ” for experiencing erotic touch and relearn how their body works through exploration of their own desire . the end goal in mindful masturbation isn ’ t just about having an orgasm—though orgasms ( and sexual activity ) have been proven to provide a whole host of benefits , including endorphins which enhance sleep , provide better focus and stress relief and help with depression , anxiety and connection . “ for trauma survivors , the pleasure of orgasm derived from oneself can help lend a new meaning to sexuality and sexual empowerment , ” mintz says . love agrees , adding , “ starting in your own body can be a really powerful place to do that reclamation work . ” lauren gostick , of whitehorse , yukon , participated in a 30 - day online community challenge , organized by a somatic sex educator , during which folks mindfully masturbated once a day . individuals were provided guidance by the educator in a private facebook group , and were encouraged to share their stories and feedback about what the process was like for them . navigating some emotional hardships in her life at the time , gostick felt that the mindful masturbation practice was exactly what she needed . “ i learned that pleasure was so much more than my favourite vibrator in my favourite position and all my typical go - tos . i learned that , despite my unresolved trauma , i can still feel pleasure . i learned that pleasure is all mine to explore , to have , to cherish and to—most importantly—have fun with , ” she says . much like gostick , learning basic tools with a somatic sex educator like pleasure mapping and body awareness in my mindful masturbation practice helped me rewire my pleasure - based mindset and take me out fight , flight or freeze mode . mintz believes the first step is learning what works for you , and being able to recreate a new positive association with pleasure . if you ’ re experiencing trauma or sexual dysfunction , she explains that “ you have to be able to do it by yourself first , and then the next step is feeling empowered enough to translate that to a partner . ” learning about mindful masturbation gave me the tools and the strength to finally feel safe in my own body , and the practice has always placed me at the centre of it . so much has changed since that fateful night in 2014 , but the best part ? i have come to know myself , sexually and emotionally , so much more than i ever have . and through it all , i ’ ve healed myself . 
__label__no_relevant mba scholarships are helping these indian students make an impact a quick google search for ‘indian women forced to live with in - laws ’ drops you in the middle of a socio - economic issue in india that chastises women on the sole basis of gender . all over the page are headlines asking , ‘is it fair to expect an indian girl to live with her in - laws after marriage ? ’ ; ‘does it make me a bad person if i refuse to live with my in - laws after marriage ? ’ ; and one stating , ‘living with in - laws is not the law . and i am not a criminal if i breach it ’ . the pertinence of this cultural issue is what drove shreya manjunath , who hails from india , to and an mba—she sought an education in social entrepreneurship that would allow her to develop her own venture to tackle the problem . shreya is able to pursue her ambitions at yale with the help of an mba scholarship—the school ’ s global leaders from india mba scholarship program grants a minimum of half of tuition to standout indian students with leadership potential . they can be granted up to $150 , 000 over two years . a techie by trade—having worked previously incubating tech products in india—shreya is showing the value of an mba scholarship at business school to pursue one ’ s own specific career goals . “ it was a very important consideration given that studying at a us business school is expensive . it reduces the debt burden , and you can pay off your loans faster that you otherwise would have , ” she explains . how can an mba help you achieve your career goals ? from a career perspective shreya ( pictured ) says she ’ s seen an immediate impact—this summer she will undertake an mba internship with amazon . though she is looking to get into the tech space after graduating , she also expects to have her own venture set up and running before she leaves ; it ’ s an issue deeply influenced by her upbringing in india . shreya explains that the process of forcing daughters - in - law to move in with their in - laws after marriage makes them more vulnerable to violence and mistreatment , reduces their position in the household hierarchy , and is economically damaging . “ the motivation is based on this experience of seeing members of my family go through hardship just because of their gender , ” she states . “ i want to address the issues , and i think tech is the best lever to have a social impact . ” shreya is combining her education in social impact with cross - university courses available to all mbas in the second year of their degree—she is currently taking courses in artificial intelligence and machine learning ; she is also working closely with a sociology professor on a research project to aid her business . “ if i was still working , i wouldn ’ t know if i ’ d have enough resources , guidance , time , or discipline to start my venture , but here it ’ s part of the curriculum , ” she says . what ’ s the value of an mba scholarship ? for siddharth rao , another indian student at benefitting from an mba scholarship , financial aid is of key importance for driving a diverse cohort . “ scholarships play a very important role in facilitating and encouraging people from various backgrounds to take the leap and pursue an mba , ” he says . “ an mba at a top global business school is a heavy investment by any measure , and the opportunity cost is multiple times steeper for international students like me . ” it enriches the mba experience , he adds , when specifically , targeted scholarships open the door to business school for underrepresented communities . how is the mba scholarship helping me ? before the mba , siddharth had seven years working in the agri - food consumer good business in india . an engineering graduate , he helped digitize a largely manual and distributed supply chain system at agri - business itc limited , and wants to use his mba to transition fully into the tech industry . being able to pursue an mba at is giving him the comprehensive business understanding he craved—he has also been able to expand his worldview , he says . “ yale som ’ s integrated curriculum will equip me with the ability to think about a problem from different perspectives , and the toolkit needed to solve complex business problems . ” siddharth adds that he is particularly excited about the yale center of customer insights discovery project , where he ’ s being given “ invaluable ” hands - on experience of applying behavioral science to solve real - world business problems for a corporate partner . his career switch is also being catalyzed by yale school of management ’ s design thinking workshops , he says , and training sessions on sql tableau by the som ’ s tech club . 
__label__relevant quebec judge removes teenager from family home after she flees forced marriage a quebec youth court judge has removed a 16 - year - old girl in victoriaville from her family after she was forced into a marriage with an older man who insisted she wear a hijab , rifled through her cellphone and controlled who she could see . the girl was so afraid in the weeks before the ceremony was to happen last spring that she ran to a neighbour ' s house and locked herself in a bedroom . after a noisy and violent confrontation between the neighbours and the girl ' s family , police escorted the girl to safety . in july , a youth court judge granted the girl ' s request to be placed in hiding with a foster family until she turns 18 . " this teenager has the right to emancipate herself , and aspire to more legitimate personal achievements such as marrying someone she loves , wanting to practise a profession and deciding herself what she wears and who she sees , " youth court judge bruno langelier said in his decision . " she has the right to freedom of conscience and religion , to be free to decide her future and not to be subjected to a fiancé who controls everything and who obliges her to wear the hijab . she wants to be free , and free from the dictates of the men around her , " langelier continued . youth protection laws forbid cbc news from naming the girl or any details that might identify her . marriage ' contract ' the girl and her family came to canada in 2016 as refugee claimants . a copy of a marriage contract dated may 2018 between the girl ' s family and her fiancé ' s family was entered into evidence in court . the girl was 15 years old at the time and the fiancé was in his 20s . the contract shows the fiancé ' s family agreed to pay a dowry of $3 , 000 to the girl ' s family , and that the marriage ceremony would take place in may 2019 . the contract was signed by the girl ' s father , the fiancé , some witnesses and an imam , but not by the girl herself . neighbours protect girllast april , just weeks before the marriage was to take place , the girl ran to a neighbour ' s house , begging for help . according to the court decision , the girl ' s mother , brother and her fiancé showed up at the neighbour ' s house demanding she be turned over . soon other members of the community showed up to support the girl ' s family and things degenerated . " people were aggressive and there was jostling . the fiancé tried to enter the neighbour ' s home . he insisted and found his hand crushed by the door , suffering an injury , " the decision said . the neighbours protected the girl and prevented her family from bringing her home until police arrived , along with youth protection workers , who took the girl into custody . girl forced to wear hijab , kept from friendsthe girl told the youth protection workers she didn ' t want to go home because her parents and fiancé were controlling every aspect of her life . she said in the months since the marriage was planned , the fiancé controlled what she could wear and her choice of friends . she said he refused to allow her to wear makeup and forced her to wear a hijab . and she said he prevented her from talking to people , and decided when and where she could go out . she told the workers she didn ' t love her fiancé , and that her refusal to marry him would mean her parents would be forced to reimburse the dowry . she said she feared reprisals from her parents , her fiancé and other members of the community . the girls ' parents initially told youth protection workers the girl ' s refusal to get married would dishonour the familythey changed their story later when they testified in youth court , saying the girl ' s refusal wouldn ' t dishonour the family and that she wasn ' t being forced into the marriage . family , fiancé try to explainthe girl ' s father and her fiancé both testified at the youth court hearing . the father tried to downplay the significance of the marriage contract , calling it a " small agreement between parents " that was more like a promise to get married . he also testified about his reasons for wanting his daughter to get married to someone he approved of . " here ( in canada ) all the girls from my country have changed . families are afraid . our daughters come here , they talk back to their mothers , they want to leave . all my friends are afraid that their daughters will leave the house , " the father testified . in his testimony , the fiancé admitted to controlling some elements of the girl ' s life , saying that she now had a responsibility to him and to their household . " everything must be within certain limits . it is forbidden that she speaks with a man , or that she speaks with a stranger or even greets one with her hand , " he testified . judge believes girl " the court believes the teenager about the fears she feels . certainly she is under pressure and control to marry the fiancé , " langelier said in his decision . he noted that the girl was so afraid of her family and fiancé that she didn ' t want to be present at the hearing . he also noted that the marriage contract entered into evidence appeared to be illegal , and that the marriage was never properly registered with the government . he said the imam who signed the contract should have known the marriage was illegal . " the planned marriage certainly was in line with the customs of the family ' s home country . however , these customs cannot prevail in the province of quebec . there is only one rule of law , and it applies to all residents of the province , " langelier said . " the court acknowledges the existence of overwhelming evidence that the safety and development of the adolescent girl is compromised as a result of psychological abuse , " he continued . langelier ordered that the girl be placed in custody of a foster family until she ' s 18 . the ruling stipulated that her new address must remain confidential , and that she wasn ' t obliged to have contact with her parents unless she wished to . youth protection officials refused to comment on the case , citing confidentiality . 
__label__no_relevant langley resident crowned miss canada petite international – cloverdale reporter vanya shastri earns one of the top spots at pageant open only to women no taller than 5 ’ 6 ” vanya shastri , a recent clayton secondary school grad , was crowned miss canada petite international 2019 / 2020 last month . the national pageant took place in toronto with fifteen women competing , all between the ages of 18 to 29 and who are no taller than 5 ’ 6 ” . “ girls from the age of 13 to 29 in the categories of miss , miss petite , and teen all bonded together so well during the 10 days . we were a sisterhood – eating , training , laughing , and crying together , ” shastri recalled . “ i spent the past six months before the competition , gaining stamina through basic kickboxing training , receiving vocal training to reach my singing voice , practicing my walk in heels , and researching my organization of choice which is the canadian women ’ s foundation . ” shastri , a clayton heights resident , said she wants to use the spotlight to raise awareness about forced marriages and to break the mold when it comes to typical pageant requirements . “ i entered because , for the longest time , i wanted to bring awareness to a cause i was passionate about on a larger scale but couldn ’ t in the past as i had no platform . i was just an anonymous film student before this . now , i can speak about women ’ s rights and bring more awareness to pay gaps , domestic violence , and education opportunities , ” shastri explained . shastri , who ’ s height 5 ’ 4 ” , was one of three women to earn a title , the others being the official miss canada petite winner overall and miss canadian petite mesoamerica . “ during nationals when i was called for the title of miss canada petite international , i couldn ’ t stop smiling and it was an overwhelming relief to know i ’ d made it . after the crowning , i later dipped my feet into an ice bath to reduce the pain from wearing heels all day and ate a ton of chocolate , ” shastri said . shastri will go on to represent canada to the miss petite international pageant in el salvador . she is currently studying acting at vancouver film school . for more information on the pageant , people can visit www . misscanada . tv . read more : langley woman prepping for miss canada petite_________________________________is there more to this story ? email : ryan . uytdewilligen@langleyadvancetimes . comlike us on facebook or follow us on twitter_________________________________
__label__relevant marriage insurance being pitched in u . s . , canada shutterstocka u . s . insurance company is promoting " marriage insurance " as a way of financially protecting couples who don ' t stay married , while rewarding those who do . safeguard guaranty corp . , based in north carolina , wants to market its unique insurance policy in canada as well as in the united states . while the policy proposes coverage in the event of a divorce , safeguard founder and ceo john logan says it would offer a bigger payout for long - lasting marriages . " you could look at it as a forced savings plan that ' s not affected by anything in the economy , " he told cbc news . " we ' re heavily promoting people to stay married by financially incenting them to work through their problems . " couples who buy safeguard ' s policy when they get married could receive a payout of $100 , 000 if they stay together after 25 years . " it becomes a win - win situation . in other words , you don ' t have to get divorced to get paid , " he said . " if you stay married for 25 years , we ' ll write you a big cheque that ' s much bigger than what you would ever get in terms of divorce coverage . " safeguard developed its divorce and marriage insurance policy in 2010 , but it ' s currently not available . the company is seeking a new underwriter , according to its website . the office of the superintendent of financial institutions canada , the federal regulator for banking , loan and insurance companies , says safeguard would be subject to approval before it can offer marriage insurance in this country . the company would also have to set up a canadian subsidiary or branch , according to officials . 
__label__no_relevant latin america ' s indigenous shield elderly from coronavirus elderly people at high risk from covid - 19 are seen as the main cultural guardians of many indigenous traditions and languagescoronavirus is changing the world in unprecedented ways . subscribe here for a daily briefing on how this global crisis is affecting cities , technology , approaches to climate change , and the lives of vulnerable people . by cassandra garrison , marina lammertyn and anthony boadlebuenos aires / brasilia , may 11 ( reuters ) - indigenous peoples across latin america are cutting off their communities from the outside world , worried that the coronavirus could pose a grave threat to their culture by putting at risk tribal elders , the keepers of their heritage . from the rocky patagonian regions of argentina to the lush brazilian amazon and the andean villages of colombia , indigenous groups are barricading villages against outsiders and doling out harsh punishment to members who violate quarantine rules . latin america is home to 42 million indigenous people , making up about 8% of the population , according to world bank data , yet their way of life is already threatened by rapid development in mining , oil extraction and deforestation . the virus represents a new , and potentially catastrophic , risk . the elderly - the group most vulnerable to complications from covid - 19 - are the guardians of many traditions and languages threatened with extinction . " the fundamental importance of elders is that they hold the collective memory , particularly regarding our identity , " said eduardo nieva , a community leader for the amaicha de valle indigenous group in northwest argentina . coronavirus : our latest storiesbecause latin america ' s indigenous populations are often preliterate , their history may not be written : it is passed down the generations by elders through storytelling . " all indigenous wisdom is oral , passed from generation to generation , so the elders carry all the accumulated experience , " nieva said . " that experience - the one they keep - is what we are protecting . " in the amazon , on brazil ' s oldest indigenous reservation , the xingu , guidance from elders is key to performing the kuarup dance ritual that brings together the community ' s 16 tribes each year to celebrate life , death and rebirth . " we are very worried . if we lose our elders we will lose their knowledge not just of cultural traditions and religious rituals , but of our traditional medicine , " said jair kuikuro , 32 , a filmmaker who documents indigenous life in the amazon . his grandmother is a custodian of a sacred chant for a women - only fertility ritual called the yamurikuma . " if she gets the virus , if she goes , her song will be lost without trace , " said kuikuro . the rural parts of latin america are among the last places on the planet to be affected by the coronavirus , and testing in these remote areas is limited , but official figures suggest the virus is beginning to spread there . communities are taking special precautions to make sure older members have food and supplies without needing to venture beyond their territories , several indigenous leaders said . vulnerable to new infectionsthe continent ' s indigenous groups , some of which only number in the hundreds , are particularly vulnerable to new infectious diseases , said carolyn stephens , a professor of global health at university college london who has worked with indigenous communities around the world . stephens cited the first wave of european colonization in latin america that introduced diseases like smallpox - resulting in millions of deaths among native populations - as an example of what could happen with a new virus . in argentina , home to at least 35 officially recognized indigenous communities , fears for the elderly have led some groups to take extreme measures to insulate themselves from outsiders . in northern argentina ' s tucuman and salta provinces , some communities have barricaded roads leading to their villages , said relmu ñamku , a mapuche leader . in other cases , community guards - who previously policed drug trafficking and other crime - have been deployed to keep away outsiders . in the xingu in brazil , locals remember how nearly half the inhabitants of a village of the kalapalo tribe were wiped out by measles in the 1950s . roads into the park have been blocked and no outsiders other than medical personnel are allowed in . in colombia ' s narino province , which borders ecuador , members of the pasto indigenous community strictly enforce quarantine rules , using corporal punishment for rule breakers . a cellphone video from april on local media showed a young man who a community leader said had violated quarantine writhing in agony after receiving three lashes from a cow hide whip . pasto leader pablo taimal confirmed the video ' s veracity . " indigenous guards have been ordered to do what is necessary to safeguard the health and integrity of our communities , " said taimal . he said they feared people crossing from ecuador , where the coronavirus has overwhelmed the health system . indigenous people said community elders often held the knowledge about centuries - old traditional medicines such as yacon , a root known for antioxidant benefits . " as a mapuche , if we take our known medicines , we will heal , " said estela astorga porma , 77 , a mapuche woman in chile ' s southern region of biobio . the effectiveness of indigenous medicines to treat diseases like covid - 19 has not been proven . it is also common tradition for younger people to go to the homes of elders to seek guidance in making decisions , community members said , a practice now on hold out of caution . " grandmothers are the community counselors . older people are those who transmit ancestral wisdom , those who organize us , give order , advise spiritually , " said rosa ñancucheo , 61 , a mapuche woman from chubut province in southern argentina . " today , we meet less than before . " ( reporting by cassandra garrison and marina lammertyn in buenos aires , and anthony boadle in brasilia ; additional reporting by oliver griffin in bogota and jose luis saavedra in biobio ; editing by rosalba o ' brien ) our standards : the thomson reuters trust principles . 
__label__no_relevant justice department ‘working on responses ’ to custody issues during covid - 19 : monsef the federal government is conscious of child custody issues that have emerged across the country during covid - 19 , and are looking at potential solutions , women and gender equality minister maryam monsef says . “ i know that ( justice ) minister lametti and his team are aware and working on responses , ” monsef said during an interview with ipolitics on tuesday afternoon , when asked about the issues around custody . “ we ’ re still working on finalizing the second phase of our response , and i can ’ t really confirm anything right now , but … the justice file is very heavily involved in the work we ’ re doing to address and prevent gender - based violence . ” read more : domestic violence organizations laud new funding , but call for more supports as covid - 19 escalates riskthe pandemic that has swept the globe in recent months has already emerged as a factor in family law cases in several canadian jurisdictions , as reported by outlets like cbc . justice quebec notes online that custody and access orders , or agreements between parents , should be complied with to the “ greatest extent possible ” — but is also urging “ common sense ” and adherence to public health recommendations . family law cases , including those dealing with covid - 19 , do not all involve violence or allegations of it . but individuals working in family law say that the current conditions of physical distancing have added new layers of difficulty for individuals fleeing from situations of domestic abuse . pamela cross , the legal director of an ontario centre for abused women called luke ’ s place , said she recently worked with a court support worker to assist a woman whose former partner was protesting their previous arrangement to exchange custody at a police station — requesting , instead , that the exchange took place at their home . that case was deemed urgent by a court , cross reported — but she cautioned that not all family law cases were able to be heard right now , as regular court operations have changed due to the virus . while the issues were complicated by factors like courts ’ independence from government directions , cross said , she believes it may be beneficial for federal officials to encourage jurisdictions to develop new protocols — conscious of the unique challenges facing victims of domestic violence with children , including those living in shelters right now . “ access arrangements , most of which are contained in a family court order , seem to be the biggest issue that ’ s cropping up right now for women who have kids who have left an abuser , ” cross said in a phone call . though canadian men can also become victims of domestic violence , statistically , women are at higher risk for such harms . statistics canada data in 2018 found women in canada accounted for 79 per cent of police - reported victims to intimate partner violence — though sector workers caution that not all victims involve authorities . a spokesperson for justice minister david lametti was unable to elaborate on the work currently underway on the custody file on tuesday , citing the complexities of family law and crossover with other jurisdictions . in the interim , his office pointed to information about changes to federal family law made in 2019 , which cross said will help when they take effect in july , due to new segments addressing family violence . read more : ‘everybody ’ s on the same page ’ on helping vulnerable women in covid - 19 crisis : monsefin the interview on tuesday , monsef also discussed the broader “ second phase ” strategy the federal government is taking to assist social services who are struggling amid the coronavirus pandemic — including organizations involved in responses to domestic violence across the country . part of the second stage was announced tuesday : a $350 - million funding injection for community organizations working with vulnerable populations , including women and children . the announcement comes on the heels of earlier funding announced for shelters and sexual assault centres . but other aspects of ottawa ’ s ‘second stage ’ aid plan are still up in the air . in a call last week with organizations and individuals working in the sector , monsef says she faced several requests for immediate help — from finding more temporary lodging to increasing shelter capacity . one idea that stood out , she said , was the idea of creating supports for men , including those who might be struggling with escalating emotions due to conditions inside their homes . “ tempers are frayed … and people are stressed . they ’ re in close quarters , and if the kids are at home ? i ’ ve got two nieces , they ’ re the best thing in the world but they can also just be a lot sometimes . when you ’ ve got kids just being kids , in homes that are predisposed to violence — that ’ s a powder keg , ” monsef said . she noted that alcohol consumption , too , might play a role in heightened tensions within canadian homes . “ we ’ re not putting all the responsibility on women ’ s organizations , and on women themselves , ” she said . monsef acknowledged a particular perspective that some domestic violence sector workers reported to ipolitics last week — that covid - 19 hadn ’ t so much created cracks in the social service system , as it had widened existing ones . “ crises like a pandemic exacerbate existing inequalities , ” monsef said in the interview . while her team was focusing on stymying escalating issues during the pandemic , she said , they also had to look toward the “ recovery phase ” and how they could address the “ cracks in the system ” creating vulnerabilities . individuals and organizations involved in the calls with federal officials last week have now been asked to propose solutions for the government ’ s second - stage response by friday , monsef said . “ our job at the federal level is to enable them to do the work on the ground — to convene as need be , to build capacity as need be , and to play the role of a knowledge broker , too , ” she told ipolitics . “ so that , as they share their insights with us , we then share it with other government departments and work to coordinate our efforts . ” 
__label__no_relevant paula simons : 100 years ago , alberta women were granted the right to vote . today , we celebrate the courage and cunning of those unlikely revolutionaries article contenton a crisp october day in 1907 , henrietta muir edwards , a 58 - year - old baptist writer and mother , who lived with her family on the blood reserve in southern alberta , travelled to edmonton to address a major convention of the women ’ s christian temperance union . edwards ’ speech was anything but temperate . we apologize , but this video has failed to load . tap here to see other videos from our team . try refreshing your browser , or paula simons : 100 years ago , alberta women were granted the right to vote . today , we celebrate the courage and cunning of those unlikely revolutionaries back to videoshe was there to talk about voting , not drinking . alberta women , she told her audience , had to demand the vote , if they wanted to change property laws that kept wives hostage to their husbands , and denied them dower rights as widows . “ the husband goes alone and votes to send a man to make or keep a law that makes everything in the home he is supposed to represent belong to him : the children , the house and the furniture , ” said edwards . “ this is not an imaginary story — it is an absolute fact . are we willing to be so represented ? ” peter brosseau / glenbow archivesif women had the vote , edwards said , they could demand better wages and working conditions for women . they could demand better protections for children . if women had the vote , male politicians would finally have to listen to them — or risk losing office . 
__label__no_relevant in the summer of covid - 19 , canadians are embracing local travel — and giving hope to the tourism industry winnipeg — for many canadians , summertime is travel time . this year , though — in the midst of the covid - 19 pandemic — many people are choosing to stay closer to home . “ this year , i ’ m essentially travelling locally , ” said lauren brown , a world traveller and toronto - based blogger who runs diy vacation , an online resource with tourism tips for destinations all over the planet . “ and it ’ s been great , ” she added , “ to find so many things fairly close to me . ” local travel means people can still get out to new places after months of isolation at home , and it also supports the canadian tourism industry which has struggled because of the public health crisis . brown said she ’ s really enjoyed some of the local areas she ’ s discovered . “ i think everyone ’ s going to be a bit surprised to find gems close by , ” she said . “ what covid has taught me is there ’ s so much in our own backyard that we haven ’ t thought to explore . ” finding new destinationsbrown — who grew up in australia and lived in britain before landing in canada — was originally supposed to be visiting the u . k . and italy this year . even though europe is now open to canadians , travel during the pandemic “ isn ’ t really encouraged , ” she said . “ i think it ’ s best to put it off until next year . ” instead , she ’ s been discovering parts of ontario that she ’ s never gotten to before . “ i ’ ve actually found a lot of hiking paths nearby that i didn ’ t know existed , ” she said , speaking about day trips around the gta . she ’ s also been focused on local road trips . driving has the added benefit of not having to worry about physical distancing with others outside your bubble during travel . brown is planning a road trip to prince edward county , on the shores of lake ontario a couple of hours east of toronto , near belleville . she ’ s also visited the muskokas , part of ontario ’ s cottage country north of the city . it ’ s her first time to both destinations . “ i ’ d definitely like to explore more of algonquin park , ” she said , speaking about a side - trip taken during her time in muskoka . “ there ’ s just a countless number ( of trails ) that i ’ d like to get back to and explore . ” ottawa tourism recently encouraged residents to explore local businesses this summer . “ ottawa tourism realized that in our new reality , it is going to take a while for visitors to come back to ottawa in the same way that they used to before the pandemic hit , ” catherine callary , vice - president of destination development for ottawa tourism , told capital current recently . ottawa and gatineau residents can simply sign up on the ottawa tourism website to receive a link to a personalized , mobile - exclusive passport . they can access free gifts and discount codes to 60 local businesses — hotels , restaurants , equipment rentals , retail stores and outdoor activities . “ we want to help local people maintain their businesses and maintain their jobs , ” said callary . “ knowing that we can ’ t do that in a sort of traditional visitor economy … we decided to get that started early and encouraged locals to pick up where visitors might have been filling in previously . ” ‘more steady tourism ’ travelling locally also pumps much - needed revenue into smaller canadian towns and local businesses , so many of which have also been hit hard by pandemic restrictions . for example , the manitoba municipality of gimli , about an hour ’ s drive north of winnipeg , has seen a steady stream of visitors this spring and summer . gimli is known for its lovely beaches on the shores of lake winnipeg , and is a major summer destination in the province . a visitor stands next to the viking statue in gimli . the town began as a settlement of icelandic immigrants . ( photo credit © l . raman - wilms ) “ normally we have our high times , which are some of our events that happen on weekends , ” said brittany isfeld , gimli ’ s economic development and tourism coordinator . “ this year it ’ s been steady , as if there ’ s been an event every day . ” even though most events have been cancelled in gimli this year , isfeld said there ’ s actually been an increase in visitors . “ we ’ re having more steady tourism , ” she said , noting that much of the traffic is people from winnipeg driving up and staying for longer periods of time . she also said she ’ s noticed that visitors are mostly from within the province . manitoba has had one of the lowest rates of covid - 19 infection and the province has reported no new covid - 19 cases for the past nine days . also , no patients with the virus are in hospital or intensive care . manitoba ’ s low case numbers may be a factor in residents choosing to travel locally , avoiding destinations with higher infection rates , south of the border . on june 21 , the province allowed travellers from b . c . , alberta , saskatchewan , yukon , the northwest territories or nunavut , as well as people coming from northwestern ontario ( west of terrace bay ) to enter without self - isolating for 14 days . destination gimliisfeld said she anticipates that tourism numbers in gimli will stay strong for the rest of the summer . the town has taken precautions to increase physically distancing in local restaurants and shops , isfeld noted . some establishments , such as sidewalk ice cream stores , have been given road allowance so their lines can accommodate more distance between customers . “ we have more caution , because we are one of canada ’ s oldest populations , ” she said . a third of gimli ’ s population is more than age 65 , according to statistics canada . “ i think a lot of people are quite respectful of that , ” she said . isfeld also added that visitors are getting the chance to appreciate gimli differently this year . usually “ there ’ s a lot of people that come in and love gimli for the events and the parties , ” she said . “ this is going to be a year when people come here and actually just enjoy gimli for what it is . ” she said it ’ s a great opportunity for people to appreciate the atmosphere and the scenery , and connect with the town in different ways . “ so hopefully , ” she said , “ some positives come out of it . ” with files from sissi de flaviis vivas
__label__relevant woman who shared story of domestic violence has encouraging words for others this story is part of stopping domestic violence , a cbc news series looking at the crisis of intimate partner violence in canada and what can be done to end it . melissa gulliver broke down in tears when she heard her abuser was in custody , more than nine months after a warrant was issued for his arrest . it was a moment she believed might never happen . " now there is actually going to be an end to it . there will be a point where i receive the email from my [victim services] co - ordinator and it will say , ' it ' s over , ' and that feeling is like winning the lotto . it is surreal , " gulliver told cbc news . the power of speaking out tells me that when people are educated and aware of what is happening they continue the conversation you started . - melissa gullivergulliver , who is from st . john ' s , spoke publicly of the assault she suffered at the hands of her former partner , ashton kennedy , 26 , and the subsequent court process , which ended with a warrant for his arrest . the day after her story aired on cbc news , kennedy turned himself in to royal newfoundland constabulary headquarters in st . john ' s . he will remain in custody until at least tuesday . he ' s been charged with assault , failure to comply with probation , failure to attend court , and three counts of failing to comply with an undertaking . ashton kennedy , 26 , poses for a photo with his dog . ( ashton kennedy / facebook ) " going public with my domestic violence experience showed me that people care , that you are not alone , and asking for help is not a sign of weakness but a sign of strength because you are taking back your control through using your voice in the silence , " gulliver said . " the power of speaking out tells me that when people are educated and aware of what is happening they continue the conversation you started , they come together and support you and the abuser can no longer hide and twist the truth in their favour . " gaining confidence and strengthkennedy assaulted gulliver in their shared apartment in december 2018 . police later told gulliver that kennedy had already been convicted of assaulting another woman , from a previous relationship . he pleaded guilty to the assault against gulliver , went to family violence intervention court , then stopped showing up . gulliver said the result has left her feeling empowered , and she hopes others will feel empowered , too , to take first steps like planning to leave or speaking out . " when you do you will feel so freeing that you will run with that and gain more confidence and strength as you go forward , " she said . " remember this is your journey , this is your process , you are not a victim of domestic violence — you are a survivor . you are surviving now and you will continue to survive . i am here for you , and there is a whole community of us ready for you . " read more from cbc newfoundland and labrador
__label__no_relevant missing psychiatric patient found in montreal halifax regional police say 34 - year - old cleoni crawford , who was reported missing from the abbie j . lane facility in halifax , has been found in montreal . montreal police located crawford at 10 : 40 a . m . saturday . she was reported missing after failing to return to the facility at 2 p . m . friday as expected . a spokesperson for the nova scotia health authority said crawford had left the facility on a pass . it is not yet known how she left the province . she was not considered to be a risk to the community , but there were concerns for her health . the health authority says an internal review will be done , and that it is “ quite rare ” for a patient to leave the province while on a pass . 
__label__relevant 629 pakistani girls sold as brides to china lahore , pakistan - - page after page , the names stack up : 629 girls and women from across pakistan who were sold as brides to chinese men and taken to china . the list , obtained by the associated press , was compiled by pakistani investigators determined to break up trafficking networks exploiting the country ' s poor and vulnerable . the list gives the most concrete figure yet for the number of women caught up in the trafficking schemes since 2018 . but since the time it was put together in june , investigators ' aggressive drive against the networks has largely ground to a halt . officials with knowledge of the investigations say that is because of pressure from government officials fearful of hurting pakistan ' s lucrative ties to beijing . the biggest case against traffickers has fallen apart . in october , a court in faisalabad acquitted 31 chinese nationals charged in connection with trafficking . several of the women who had initially been interviewed by police refused to testify because they were either threatened or bribed into silence , according to a court official and a police investigator familiar with the case . the two spoke on condition of anonymity because they feared retribution for speaking out . at the same time , the government has sought to curtail investigations , putting " immense pressure " on officials from the federal investigation agency pursuing trafficking networks , said saleem iqbal , a christian activist who has helped parents rescue several young girls from china and prevented others from being sent there . " some ( fia officials ) were even transferred , " iqbal said in an interview . " when we talk to pakistani rulers , they don ' t pay any attention . " asked about the complaints , pakistan ' s interior and foreign ministries refused to comment . several senior officials familiar with the events said investigations into trafficking have slowed , the investigators are frustrated , and pakistani media have been pushed to curb their reporting on trafficking . the officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they feared reprisals . " no one is doing anything to help these girls , " one of the officials said . " the whole racket is continuing , and it is growing . why ? because they know they can get away with it . the authorities won ' t follow through , everyone is being pressured to not investigate . trafficking is increasing now . " he said he was speaking out " because i have to live with myself . where is our humanity ? " china ' s foreign ministry said it was unaware of the list . " the two governments of china and pakistan support the formation of happy families between their people on a voluntary basis in keeping with laws and regulations , while at the same time having zero tolerance for and resolutely fighting against any person engaging in illegal cross - border marriage behaviour , " the ministry said in a statement faxed monday to ap ' s beijing bureau . an ap investigation earlier this year revealed how pakistan ' s christian minority has become a new target of brokers who pay impoverished parents to marry off their daughters , some of them teenagers , to chinese husbands who return with them to their homeland . many of the brides are then isolated and abused or forced into prostitution in china , often contacting home and pleading to be brought back . the ap spoke to police and court officials and more than a dozen brides - - some of whom made it back to pakistan , others who remained trapped in china - - as well as remorseful parents , neighbours , relatives and human rights workers . christians are targeted because they are one of the poorest communities in muslim - majority pakistan . the trafficking rings are made up of chinese and pakistani middlemen and include christian ministers , mostly from small evangelical churches , who get bribes to urge their flock to sell their daughters . investigators have also turned up at least one muslim cleric running a marriage bureau from his madrassa , or religious school . investigators put together the list of 629 women from pakistan ' s integrated border management system , which digitally records travel documents at the country ' s airports . the information includes the brides ' national identity numbers , their chinese husbands ' names and the dates of their marriages . all but a handful of the marriages took place in 2018 and up to april 2019 . one of the senior officials said it was believed all 629 were sold to grooms by their families . it is not known how many more women and girls were trafficked since the list was put together . but the official said , " the lucrative trade continues . " he spoke to the ap in an interview conducted hundreds of kilometres from his place of work to protect his identity . " the chinese and pakistani brokers make between 4 million and 10 million rupees ( $25 , 000 and $65 , 000 ) from the groom , but only about 200 , 000 rupees ( $1 , 500 ) , is given to the family , " he said . the official , with years of experience studying human trafficking in pakistan , said many of the women who spoke to investigators told of forced fertility treatments , physical and sexual abuse and , in some cases , forced prostitution . although no evidence has emerged , at least one investigation report contains allegations of organs being harvested from some of the women sent to china . in september , pakistan ' s investigation agency sent a report it labeled " fake chinese marriages cases " to prime minister imran khan . the report , a copy of which was attained by the ap , provided details of cases registered against 52 chinese nationals and 20 of their pakistani associates in two cities in eastern punjab province - - faisalabad , lahore - - as well as in the capital islamabad . the chinese suspects included the 31 later acquitted in court . the report said police discovered two illegal marriage bureaus in lahore , including one operated from an islamic centre and madrassa - - the first known report of poor muslims also being targeted by brokers . the muslim cleric involved fled police . after the acquittals , there are other cases before the courts involving arrested pakistani and at least another 21 chinese suspects , according to the report sent to the prime minister in september . but the chinese defendants in the cases were all granted bail and left the country , say activists and a court official . activists and human rights workers say pakistan has sought to keep the trafficking of brides quiet so as not to jeopardize pakistan ' s increasingly close economic relationship with china . china has been a steadfast ally of pakistan for decades , particularly in its testy relationship with india . china has provided islamabad with military assistance , including pre - tested nuclear devices and nuclear - capable missiles . today , pakistan is receiving massive aid under china ' s belt and road initiative , a global endeavour aimed at reconstituting the silk road and linking china to all corners of asia . under the $75 billion china - pakistan economic corridor project , beijing has promised islamabad a sprawling package of infrastructure development , from road construction and power plants to agriculture . the demand for foreign brides in china is rooted in that country ' s population , where there are roughly 34 million more men than women - - a result of the one - child policy that ended in 2015 after 35 years , along with an overwhelming preference for boys that led to abortions of girl children and female infanticide . a report released this month by human rights watch , documenting trafficking in brides from myanmar to china , said the practice is spreading . it said pakistan , cambodia , indonesia , laos , myanmar , nepal , north korea and vietnam have " all have become source countries for a brutal business . " " one of the things that is very striking about this issue is how fast the list is growing of countries that are known to be source countries in the bride trafficking business , " heather barr , the hrw report ' s author , told ap . omar warriach , amnesty international ' s campaigns director for south asia , said pakistan " must not let its close relationship with china become a reason to turn a blind eye to human rights abuses against its own citizens " - - either in abuses of women sold as brides or separation of pakistani women from husbands from china ' s muslim uighur population sent to " re - education camps " to turn them away from islam . " it is horrifying that women are being treated this way without any concern being shown by the authorities in either country . and it ' s shocking that it ' s happening on this scale , " he said . - - - - - - associated press writers munir ahmed and shahid aslam in islamabad contributed to this report . 
__label__relevant he tried to kill her twice . now , she helps him rehabilitate domestic abusers send this page to someone via emaileditor ’ s note : this story contains graphic descriptions of violenceone day in 1980 , joe fossella grabbed a bolt action rifle , intent on killing his wife joyce . but the bolt was missing , so he couldn ’ t fire it . fossella chuckled grimly to himself , put the rifle away and went to join his wife and son in the kitchen . it was the first time fossella tried to kill the woman he loved , but not the last . some five years later , he tried again . on that night , fossella was nearing blackout drunk and angry over an argument . he wrapped his hands around her throat and began choking joyce as she lay in bed . watching his wife visibly struggle for air seemed to finally shake fossella out of his alcoholic stupor . story continues below advertisementwhat am i doing ? he asked himself . he let go . he stepped back . i ’ m sorry , fossella told his wife — sorry for choking her , sorry for his drinking , sorry for his infidelities . joyce didn ’ t believe him . “ but i love you , ” he tried . “ yes , joe . i know you love me , but one day you could love me to death , ” said joyce , her neck still red from her husband ’ s attack . 3 : 07 vancouver couple overcomes a history of domestic violence to help others avoid same situation vancouver couple overcomes a history of domestic violence to help others avoid same situationin 1989 , the école polytechnique massacre propelled the issue of violence against women to the fore of the canadian conscious , putting women ’ s rights and feminism under the microscope . yet , 30 years later , to be a woman in canada still means living with risk — to live knowing that , on average , a woman is killed every other day , that once a week a woman is murdered by her partner and that one in three women will experience some form of sexual violence over the course of their lives . story continues below advertisementintimate partner violence represents close to one - third of all police - reported violent crime in canada , and 80 per cent of its victims are women , with indigenous women like joyce disproportionately affected . and yet , experts are still struggling with what to do with those who abuse women — can they be reformed ? or is it once an abuser , always an abuser ? fossella , a member of the shíshálh first nation on the sunshine coast , believes firmly that abusers can be rehabilitated if they are truly committed to change . once a week , fossella , who is now 71 and recently celebrated his 52nd anniversary with joyce , hosts a weekly meeting for warriors against violence . warriors is a support group for people with a history of domestic violence , where you ’ ll often hear talk of racism , colonialism and the ongoing impact of canada ’ s residential schools . read more : stakes high for indigenous women still waiting for action after mmiwg inquiryoriginally conceived as a resource for indigenous men with a history of violence against women , the group has expanded to include women who have assaulted their partners and aims to give people the tools they need to explore the roots of their anger and then manage it . story continues below advertisementone monday in november , more than two dozen people — some of whom are ordered by courts to attend and some who come because they want to — are gathered . they meet for a potluck and then sit in a circle in a meeting room at the kiwassa neighbourhood house in east vancouver . they smudge , a first nations cleansing ceremony that involves burning an aromatic mixture of cedar and sage and wafting smoke over participants , and then they pass around a feather . if the feather is yours , then it ’ s your turn to say whatever is on your mind . joe fossella tried to kill his wife twice , but he believes firmly that abusers , like himself , can be rehabilitated if they are truly committed to change . global newswhile some say very little — one man offers few details , saying that he ’ s “ working through everything ” and wants to “ keep at it ” — others speak at length about their struggles . matthew , a person who global news is not identifying for privacy reasons , was fresh off four nights in jail . he ’ d gone to visit his ex - girlfriend and “ got violent ” after realizing another man was in her house . story continues below advertisement “ i went in and i assaulted him and i scared him off , ” matthew told the group . he ’ s not making eye contact , just staring down at the floor while he talks . 6 : 57 warriors against violence aims to rehabilitate domestic abusers warriors against violence aims to rehabilitate domestic abusersafter matthew , whose mother is from gitxaala nation , was released from jail , he said police warned him to keep his distance , telling him that even a single text message to his ex - girlfriend could see him back behind bars . matthew starts to cry , and someone offers him a box of tissues . “ i ’ m just heartbroken . being heartbroken sucks . that ’ s my family that i just sort of threw away , ” he tells the group . “ to be honest , i could see getting used to being in jail . ” tweet thismatthew ’ s comment strikes a chord , unsurprising considered indigenous people are overrepresented in canada ’ s prison system . federally , indigenous people make up nearly one - third of the prison population , even though they make up just four per cent of the overall adult population , according to statistics canada . story continues below advertisementafter matthew , clinton takes the feather . 2 : 47 canada ’ s failure to end violence against women canada ’ s failure to end violence against womenclinton , who has roots in the nisga ’ a and gitxsan nations and who global news is also not identifying for privacy reasons , matter - of - factly tells the group it ’ s been nearly two years since he last laid a hand on his partner . he has battled alcohol abuse and still struggles with temptation . clinton tells the group about recently running into an old friend on the skytrain who offered to share a bottle of crown royal with him as they rode . clinton turned him down , he recounts proudly . he doesn ’ t always feel that strength , though . he talks about a setback and how he recently “ put a hole in the door ” during a moment of anger . but after every setback , clinton reminds himself why he tries . it ’ s important to him , for his young son , that he learns how to deal with his emotional outbursts . story continues below advertisement “ i don ’ t want to have him grow up and be like i was , not knowing how to deal with my emotions and putting holes in the wall . ” tweet this * * * * warriors against violence is a non - profit batterer intervention program , or bip . bips were developed in the 1970s , around the time of the rise of the battered women ’ s movement , in an effort to find a successful way to treat men who were violent with their partners . many are built on the duluth model , which challenges men to confront their actions and see how societal attitudes towards women have shaped their behaviour . “ part of it is recognizing the power and control within relationships , ” says peter jaffe , director of western university ’ s centre for research and education on violence against women and children . 8 : 29 école polytechnique massacre : why we remember 30 years later école polytechnique massacre : why we remember 30 years later “ domestic violence is not just hitting somebody on saturday night when you ’ re drunk , ” jaffe says . story continues below advertisement “ domestic violence is often part of how men may have been socialized in terms of not necessarily seeing women as equal , seeing women as possessions and having some fairly deep - seated notions about gender inequality and having to reconsider what respectful relationships look like . ” the answer to the question of whether bips work depends on your definition of success . people who do these programs are about three times less likely to reoffend for domestic violence and two and a half times less likely to commit other types of offences , according to a 2019 meta - analysis conducted by researchers at washington university in st . louis and the university of texas at arlington . however , researchers found that success rate gets complicated once you look at interviews with the survivors of domestic abuse . their lived reports indicate “ no significant effect ” on violent behaviour . as the researchers put it : “ it is possible that ( batterer intervention program ) s may reduce criminalized behaviour but not abusive behaviour . ” tweet thisalexandra lysova is a criminology professor at simon fraser university who studies intimate partner violence . “ there is nearly zero effectiveness of these programs , ” she says . some of the criticism centres on the programs ’ one - size - fits - all approach to treating people who may be suffering from all sorts of psychological issues , from personality disorders to substance abuse issues . story continues below advertisementbut a bigger obstacle is that not everyone who goes to a program — or who sits in the kiwassa neighbourhood house in east vancouver on monday nights — is ready to change . offenders are often ordered by a court to attend a program , and that may alter their behaviour enough to avoid returning to the criminal justice system , lysova says , but they may not yet be capable of true reform . “ it appears that the models that focus on the offenders ( who ) take responsibility for abuse may be effective , ” she says . “ but the problem here is that these offenders may not have that motivation for change . ” * * * * fossella vowed to sober up immediately after the night he tried to choke his wife to death . that was more than 30 years ago . the couple — who wed in 1967 when she was 23 years old and he was 19 — are happily married . they have two children , six grandchildren and three great - grandchildren . but the road between then and now hasn ’ t been easy . story continues below advertisementjoyce says they tried counselling but fossella wasn ’ t ready for it . ultimately , she told him that he needed to truly commit to changing . “ you have to help yourself , ” she told him . “ i ’ m not going to even help you this time . ” it was always her trying to save their marriage , joyce remembers . “ i was always the one looking and seeking help . ” it took joyce fossella two years to feel safe around her husband after he tried to kill her . now , she helps him rehabilitate other domestic abusers . global newsit was only when he joined change of seasons , a north vancouver group formed in 1992 to help perpetrators of domestic violence , that fossella started to voice the trauma he ’ d tried to cope with by turning to alcohol . in a room of men whose stories felt so much like his own , fossella began to unpack the trauma of his childhood . story continues below advertisementin that room , he finally spoke at length about how his father abused his mother and about how his father abused him . in that room , he finally felt comfortable speaking about a secret he had never shared with anyone : as a four - year - old child , he was sexually abused by a buddhist monk . he says immediately after the assault , he didn ’ t fully understand the gravity of what had happened to him , until the monk put his finger to his lips and said : “ shhh . ” “ as soon as he made that noise , instantly my father came to my mind . is my father going to beat me up when he finds out what this man has done to me ? ” fossella says . the likelihood of being abused as a kid is much higher for indigenous children , according to a statistics canada survey . forty per cent of respondents reported being sexually or physically abused or both as a child , more than the 29 per cent of non - indigenous respondents who reported such abuse . it isn ’ t unusual for survivors like fossella to keep childhood sexual abuse a secret , jillian roberts , a child psychologist and associate professor at the university of victoria , told global news earlier this year . story continues below advertisement “ i believe that many , many people are abused without telling anyone , ” roberts said . “ sexual abuse still has a stigma in our society . ” after two series of sessions with change of seasons , fossella told joyce and his family about the abuse he had suffered . it proved to be the breakthrough he needed , although it would be two full years before joyce finally felt safe around her husband . “ even though he stopped and he was taking the program , he had made changes , i still didn ’ t trust it . i still had that fear . ” tweet thisthat journey shaped how the couple leads warriors against violence . disclosing past traumas is a key to breaking the cycle of violence and substance abuse plaguing too many canadian families , fossella believes . “ i became an alcoholic trying to smother those things , ” he says . “ it took me 43 years . ” and so , every monday night , fossella sits in a circle with a room full of men and women — indigenous and non - indigenous alike — and relives the worst of his past . when fossella holds the feather , he speaks about the abuse he suffered and the abuse he inflicted . speaking about it takes a toll , he says , but that pales in comparison to the freedom he feels from having nothing to hide . story continues below advertisement “ we ’ re all born with compassion … and i became hard , but now i ’ m very much open to help other people , ” fossella says . “ i have no more secrets . ” tweet thisto read the full broken series , go here . for a list of resources if you need help , go here . our reporting doesn ’ t end here . do you have a story of violence against women , trans or non - binary people — sexual harassment , emotional , physical or sexual abuse or murder — that you want us to look at ? email us : jon . azpiri@globalnews . castory continues below advertisement
__label__no_relevant nova scotia man who evaded police for nearly a week faces nine charges bridgewater , n . s . - - the mayor of a nova scotia town that was the scene of a days - long manhunt for a man accused of stabbing a police officer said monday his community is relieved the suspect has been arrested and charged . " it ' s been a trying time , " said bridgewater mayor david mitchell , on the arrest of tobias charles doucette , who evaded capture by police for nearly a week . " last week was a roller - coaster . . . it ' s a big sense of relief in the community . " the 31 - year - old suspect was officially charged monday during a brief court hearing in bridgewater , n . s . , about 100 kilometres west of halifax . he is charged with attempted murder , assault , aggravated assault , assault with a weapon , mischief , theft of a motor vehicle , two counts of possession of a weapon for a dangerous purpose , and wounding a law enforcement animal . doucette was arrested saturday night after police responded to a call about an attempted vehicle theft in the village of hebbville , n . s . the suspect fled after allegedly striking an officer in the neck with an edged weapon as police responded to a domestic violence call at a hotel in bridgewater on july 20 . doucette is accused of assaulting his common - law partner in the same incident . he was spotted by an rcmp dog and handler last tuesday in conquerall bank , n . s . , but police said he escaped into nearby woods after allegedly stabbing the dog with a stick . after going several days without finding any trace of doucette , police responded to two possible sightings of him in bridgewater on friday . he wasn ' t arrested , however , until the night after police received the call about the possible vehicle theft . at the time of his arrest , doucette was wearing shorts but had no shirt or shoes . police had established checkpoints at various sites around the bridgewater area in the past week , with one as far away as the canso causeway to cape breton , doucette ' s home region . danny macphee , bridgewater ' s deputy police chief , told reporters monday he thinks doucette never left the bridgewater area . " i believe he never broke our containment , " said macphee . " when he was escorted out of the woods ( by police ) he was compliant . " the next court hearing in the case is scheduled for july 30 . this report by the canadian press was first published july 27 , 2020 . 
__label__no_relevant feast your eyes on these beautiful street murals from 11 of canada ' s largest cities article contentin just about every urban centre in canada , you ’ ll find street murals that are transforming drab stretches of brick and concrete into colourful works of public art , sometimes portraying historical figures and events or borrowing social justice themes meant to provoke conversation . some of these artworks are commissioned by municipal governments or private businesses , engaging local and international artists , to beautify the spaces we all share . festivals celebrating this type of art have become popular and have been happening in cities across the country for several years now . we apologize , but this video has failed to load . tap here to see other videos from our team . try refreshing your browser , or feast your eyes on these beautiful street murals from 11 of canada ' s largest cities back to videosome debate the authenticity of murals as street art when compared to the creations of illegal graffiti artists , but it ’ s hard to debate the beauty of many of these murals . here are just a few of the many examples you can find in the streets of canada ’ s largest cities . vancouverstreet art and murals are plentiful in several parts of vancouver , but you ’ ll be able to sample plenty of examples of this type of artistic expression is the mount pleasant neighbourhood which also happens to be home to the vancouver mural festival . billing itself as western canada ’ s biggest celebration of public art , the next installment of the festival is coming this summer , but the lineup of artists and musicians hasn ’ t been announced yet . check out this map to see murals created during previous festivals : 
__label__no_relevant edmonton among canadian communities holding 3rd annual women ’ s march send this page to someone via emailedmonton was one of many canadian communities participating in the third annual women ’ s march on saturday . the rally was organized for the advancement of the rights of women and other vulnerable groups . the movement started in the u . s . following president donald trump ’ s inauguration in 2017 . marches across the world , including in canada , were organized in solidarity with those marching in washington , d . c . read more : edmontonians ‘making a point ’ at second annual women ’ s marchco - organizer paula kirman said that the movement is still important , two years after it started . “ events like this will help keep the issue in the public eye , ” she said . tweet thiskirman said work is still being done on issues brought up during the first women ’ s march , such as the gender pay gap , gender - based violence and bullying of women in politics . story continues below advertisementshe said she has seen positive steps being taken in relation to those issues . “ people are talking about those issues more . whether or not we ’ ve been able to affect any real change – the fact that we ’ re bringing those topics to the forefront and keeping the pressure on politicians and government to do things about these issues – that in and of itself means that what we ’ re doing is important , ” kirman said . read more : thousands of canadians expected to take part in third annual women ’ s marchthe theme for this year ’ s rally was putting an end to anti - semitism , racism , islamophobia and anti - immigration sentiments . “ we see the rising of hate groups , ” kirman said . “ we ’ re seeing it right here in edmonton . we want to say no , we stand against these things . ” tracy folorunsho - barry with gradual rising of women ( grow ) spoke at the rally about her experience as an immigrant in edmonton ; she said there are still many immigrant - related issues women can fight for . “ discrimination , racism and all that set women back . particularly discrimination of not being able to speak properly , an immigration and a woman , a lot of things are based on discrimination and also racism , ” she said . tweet thisthe crowd at saturday ’ s event was noticeably smaller than the first year women ’ s march , when thousands gathered at the alberta legislature ; kirman acknowledged the cold temperatures may play a role in attendance . story continues below advertisementposters are the rally read “ our rights are not up for grabs and neither are we , ” “ women ’ s security lies in the fight for the rights of all ” and “ men of quality don ’ t fear equality . ” read more : hundreds turn out for annual women ’ s march in downtown vancouverlaura sydora is a ph . d . candidate at the university of alberta , researching feminist issues and social movements . she said feminist issues are human rights issues . “ having a space in which people can get together , raise awareness and bring their voices together is a good starting point in reminding us these issues are relevant and important still , ” she said . attendee carol wilson said education for women outside of canada along with the issue of reproductive rights are important for her . wilson said there is a feeling that the fight for women ’ s rights is over , which she disagrees with . “ i think we have to be really careful and keep the interest in feminism going , ” she said . tweet thisthe movement also works towards protecting reproductive rights and acknowledging issues faced by the lgbtq community , indigenous people , workers and people with disabilities . 
__label__relevant forced marriage in canada ' more prevalent ' than thought : ex - child bride samra zafar was just 16 years old when her mother told her she would be marrying a 28 - year - old man in canada . against her wishes , zafar left her pakistani family ’ s home in the united arab emirates and started a new life with her husband in mississauga , ont . over the next decade , she endured “ abuse of all kinds ” as she raised two daughters and tried desperately to obtain a university education and get out of her marriage . she eventually succeeded and is now speaking out about child brides and forced marriage – a problem she says is prevalent , even in canada . “ it ’ s actually shocking how much it happens here , ” zafar , who is now a successful financial services professional , speaker and human rights activist , told ctv ’ s your morning on thursday . “ since i have started speaking up about it , i get approached by women and girls all the time . ” forcing very young girls into marriage is a serious problem all around the world , activists say . in canada , marriage laws vary among provinces and territories , with the legal age of marriage generally set at 18 . however , in many provinces , a person with consent from both parents can be married at age 16 or 17 . those exceptions can lead to forced marriage because the bride ’ s consent is not explicitly sought , said saadya hamdani of plan canada , an international organization that supports social justice for children in developing countries . “ the cultural value that is attached to marriage is a very big problem , ” hamdani told ctv ’ s your morning . it is estimated that , each year , 15 million girls around the world are married before the age of 18 . in september 2013 , the south asian legal clinic of ontario released a report that counted 219 confirmed or suspected cases of forced marriage in ontario and quebec from 2010 to 2012 . in 57 per cent of the cases , people were taken out of canada to get married . the report said that forced marriage can “ happen to anyone regardless of gender , religion or age . ” zafar , who has been speaking about the issue in canadian high schools , said she is sometimes approached by teachers who tell her about girls in grades 10 , 11 or 12 , who go to their family ’ s country of origin for the summer and don ’ t come back because they end up getting married there . “ it ’ s more prevalent than we all think because no one talks about it , ” she said . “ there ’ s a veil of honour that covers this whole issue . it ’ s hush - hush . ” zafar said girls are usually not aware of their rights if they live in cultures and families that condition them to think that getting married is their “ ultimate destiny ” and a girl ’ s “ sole purpose ” she believed that herself , until she came to canada and suffered abuse at the hands of her husband . zafar was able to secretly save enough money to get an education at the university of toronto , where she excelled and realized for the first time that what she experienced at home was abuse . she left her husband and continued to pursue her education as a single mother , while also working multiple jobs . she obtained a master ’ s degree in economics with the highest distinction , won multiple scholarships and awards , and is now the youngest alumnus serving as a university of toronto governor . zafar is now a sought - after speaker on the topics of domestic violence , gender inequality and female empowerment . “ it ’ s my mission now to bring awareness to this issue , ” she said . 
__label__relevant pam frampton : tread carefully with clare ’ s law a aget used to hearing about clare ’ s law . it ’ s being rolled out in saskatchewan and the groundwork is being laid in newfoundland and labrador , alberta , ontario and british columbia . named for clare wood , a 36 - year - old single mother who was strangled by her ex - boyfriend in england in 2009 , the law ’ s purpose is to protect people who may be at risk from a violent partner . the law was championed by clare ’ s father , michael brown , and it allows the police to verbally disclose , either proactively or upon request , the criminal history of someone who has previously committed intimate partner violence . clare ’ s killer had convictions for harassing a woman and breaking a restraining order . he had told clare he ’ d been jailed for “ motoring offences . ” in the months after she broke up with him , she had complained to the police multiple times about his threatening and violent behaviour . her father argued that had she known about his past at the beginning of their relationship , she likely would never have gotten involved with him and would be alive today . put that simply , it makes sense . but the reality of relationship violence is far more complex , and clare ’ s law requires more scrutiny . two academics , sandra walklate and kate fitz - gibbon , from the u . k . and australia , respectively , have studied clare ’ s law extensively and say there is no evidence to date that it “ acts as a preventive strategy or an effective intervention . ” ( a paper they wrote refers to violence against women , but clare ’ s law can also be used by men at risk from a partner . ) “ much violence against women is hidden in nature and often unreported to the police ( this is even more so for ethnic minority women and women with disabilities ) , ” they write . “ the presumption that under clare ’ s law women can make informed decisions misunderstands the realities of living with the controlling effects of violence , overestimates the accuracy of police data on previous offending , and potentially makes women experiencing violence responsible for their partner ’ s behaviour should they choose to remain in the relationship , post - disclosure . ” put that simply , it makes sense . but the reality of relationship violence is far more complex , and clare ’ s law requires more scrutiny . in this province , justice minister andrew parsons has acknowledged that the legislation being introduced is bare bones at this point , and says there will be consultation to determine precisely how it would work . and that ’ s wise , because the law raises many questions , such as whether it unjustly puts the onus on the victim to avoid the abuse , rather than on the abuser to stop being violent . and it raises questions about privacy and human rights : at what point does someone officially become your partner ? could the law be used vindictively ? what if a person receives information and decides to continue in the relationship ? could custody of their children be jeopardized by their decision ? would they be taken less seriously , then , in the face of further complaints ? these are some of the nuanced questions that need to be answered , as well as practical ones : will the police be given more resources to gather information and disclose it to people at risk ? what gets included in a person ’ s criminal history ? convictions only , or complaints , as well ? in the united kingdom , where clare ’ s law has been in force for five years , police say there are often cases where they attempt to proactively disclose information to people at risk , but they refuse to hear it . as one anti - domestic abuse advocate told the bbc , if a woman " feels she ' s not able to escape " it can be “ easier not to know . ” many advocates suggest that any additional resources should be deployed to help people leave abusive relationships . in an excellent analysis piece on the university of alberta ’ s law blog , professors jennifer koshan and wanda wiegers say that clare ’ s law — also known as domestic violence disclosure ( dvd ) law — could be window dressing hiding a larger problem . “ governments can point to dvd laws as evidence that they are doing something while avoiding the need for increased funding for support services for survivors and the larger structural issues underlying domestic violence , ” they write . “ this is not to say that dvd laws will not be a useful tool in some cases , but they must be accompanied by the kinds of resources and training that advocates and survivors have called for… ” pam frampton is the telegram ’ s managing editor . email pamela . frampton@thetelegram . com . twitter : pam_framptonrelated story• clare ’ s law is coming to newfoundland and labradormore from pam frampton• the season of melancholy• you don ' t owe anyone your vote
__label__relevant homeless , pregnant , covid - positive — and bearing the brunt of a pandemic inside a labour and delivery room at toronto ' s michael garron hospital , diamond is in her bed , steeling herself for the birth of her first child . outside the door , a sign warns hospital staff to take " droplet precautions " before entering . diamond ' s midwife jenna bly is by her side , dressed head - to - toe in protective equipment — a gown layered over her scrubs and tucked into her gloves , with her face mask leaving only her eyes visible to her frightened client . on this day in april , diamond is nine months pregnant . homeless . a victim of domestic abuse . and , as of less than a day earlier , officially covid - positive . diamond wonders if she ' s dying . bly worries what will happen if she does . the midwife broaches a grim subject : how to prepare a living will for her client , who ' s just in her 30s , and whose only symptom — so far — has been a bit of a cough . " i didn ' t want this baby to just go into the foster system without any plan . i wanted to know what she wanted for the baby , " bly later recalls . " so we spent the few hours before the baby was born coordinating with various supports , to create an emergency plan if she were to go on a ventilator . " she pauses . " it ' s not something i usually do at a birth . " but these are not typical times . diamond , whose identity cbc news is concealing to protect her safety , is among the most vulnerable members of society — a new immigrant who fled her toronto home after a violent assault , forcing her into the city ' s shelter system with no clear path to stable housing . researchers and advocates alike believe she ' s just one example of the kind of person covid - 19 strikes the hardest . in a city like toronto , there are more of these people than you ' d think . " unfortunately , her story is shockingly not uncommon , " says kaitlin schwan , senior researcher at the canadian observatory on homelessness . " for folks on the front lines , you ' re really just trying to scrape together resources to support someone in this situation . " pandemic ' sheds light on inequalities ' it ' s been close to four months since toronto ' s first suspected case of covid - 19 . since then , roughly 24 , 000 people have been confirmed infected across the province , with more than 2 , 000 ontarians dying to date . research from ices , a not - for - profit research institute , suggests many of those positive cases have come from marginalized communities — neighbourhoods where poverty and housing instability intersect . " this pandemic sheds light on inequalities we have already , " says dr . astrid guttmann , chief science officer at ices and a physician at sickkids hospital . compared with ontarians not tested for covid - 19 , those tested — and those confirmed positive — were more likely to live in neighbourhoods with greater residential instability , material deprivation and dependency , and lower income status , the research found . those confirmed positive also were more likely to live in communities with a relatively greater concentration of immigrants and visible minorities . the findings are still preliminary , but so far the results aren ' t surprising , guttmann adds . that ' s because researchers have long known poverty and marginalization put people at a greater risk of poor health , which can be tied to any combination of factors from high stress levels , to food insecurity , to crowded — or nonexistent — housing . " what covid has done is just made this unignorable , " says dr . andrew boozary , an assistant professor at the university of toronto ' s dalla lana school of public health . " but we ' ve ignored it and been willfully blind to these outcomes for decades . " waiting for test results , pregnant and aloneit ' s now may , and diamond is sitting in the lobby of a downtown hotel , holding her weeks - old baby girl . the newborn is wrapped up in a white blanket with little pink polka dots with her face covered by a black - and - white striped towel . her mother speaks slowly , her quiet voice muffled by her blue surgical mask . " i ' m in canada by myself . i don ' t have family here , " she says . diamond moved here from ethiopia five years ago . earlier this year , she first entered a toronto women ' s shelter after fleeing domestic abuse , and while she ' s not sure if that ' s where she caught the disease during the third trimester of her pregnancy , it ' s a possibility . " in the shelter , i lived in one room with three people , " she explains . " sharing the washroom — everything . " toronto midwife jenna bly demonstrates the level of personal protective equipment she now wears while helping vulnerable covid - positive clients . ( evan mitsui / cbc ) that ' s where she first met bly , who has spent the last year - and - a - half working with precariously - housed clients as the creator and co - lead for south riverdale community health centre ' s match midwives program , a role she shares with fellow co - lead shezeen suleman . after diamond tested positive for covid - 19 , the hours leading up to her delivery in mid - april were full of fear and uncertainty for both women . for bly , who is married with three little girls of her own , it marked her first time helping deliver a baby for a covid - positive mother . while getting ready to head to the hospital , she wondered if she was putting her own family at risk . " there ' s this deadly virus ravaging the world , and i had to be in the room with it , " bly says . " then i got in the room , with this person that i knew , and i was just providing care . " thankfully , after delivering a healthy baby , her client didn ' t need to use the end - of - life directives in her living will — her symptoms never worsened beyond a cough . but who was going to care for her now , this new mother with a contagious disease ? at the urging of bly and the midwife team , diamond and her newborn were later admitted to toronto ' s so - called " covid hotel . " there , on a site near an industrial area of the city — the exact location is being kept secret from the general public — residents experiencing both homelessness and covid - 19 are able to recover under the city ' s watch . ' the only lasting solution is housing ' the 200 - bed recovery facility opened in april in partnership with the university health network , inner city health associates and other community health providers , and provides medical support and meals to clients and even toys , which are cleaned in between uses , for their children . so far , more than 210 people like diamond have come and gone , with close to 80 clients currently staying at the site . mary - anne bédard , general manager of toronto ' s shelter , support and housing administration , says a second site opened on may 16 in a downtown location , which is providing a space for people awaiting test results and close contacts of confirmed or suspected cases . bédard says these sites are opening at " record speed . " others say the city lagged behind in its efforts , leaving too many homeless residents stuck in the close quarters of toronto ' s jam - packed shelter system as the city ' s case count kept rising . " it certainly was a catalyst for spread , " says rafi aaron , a spokesperson for the toronto - based interfaith coalition to fight homelessness . " because , at the best of times , the conditions people were in were breeding grounds for covid - 19 . " crowded shelters , like other congregate settings , have proved to be a flash point for transmission . as of may 20 , toronto has experienced 352 covid - 19 cases tied to outbreaks in the shelter system . dr . andrew boozary , an assistant professor at university of toronto ' s dalla lana school of public heath , was co - lead on the project . ( university health network ) " the primary policy intervention has been ' stay at home , ' but that ' s not something we can do amid housing precarity , " stresses schwan , who is also co - chair for the recently - launched women ' s national housing and homelessness network . " we finally understand the centrality of housing to well - being — to health care — because of covid . " boozary , the assistant professor at u of t , calls housing " the only lasting solution . " with covid - 19 further exposing the health disparities and vulnerabilities of marginalized residents , he says all levels of government need to build strategies to house all canadians . and sooner , not later , amid growing fears the cases among the country ' s poor and homeless could keep rising , with a ripple effect long after the pandemic ends . " being able to provide people with decent comfortable housing has health - care benefits , cost benefits , economic benefits , " boozary says . " and most importantly , there ' s human dignity . " slipping through the cracksfor diamond , the covid - 19 crisis is just another hurdle she didn ' t need . after recovering from her illness at the " covid hotel , " she was sent to her current living quarters in another city - operated hotel room , kilometres away , with her baby . she ' s not sure where she ' ll go next . bly , who is still checking on diamond with the match midwives team , is trying to connect her to housing providers , hoping to find her a permanent roof over her head . but with years - long wait lists for social housing , the future looks bleak . bly worries her client , and others like her , will simply slip through the cracks . diamond speaks to cbc news reporter lauren pelley in the lobby of a downtown toronto hotel while cradling her infant daughter . ( evan mitsui / cbc ) while speaking to cbc news in the hotel lobby , diamond starts crying , her soft voice cracking . " i ' ve struggled too much in my life , by myself , shelter to shelter , " she says . " no one can understand what happened in your life . sometimes i ' m sad . angry . shouting , because so many things are happening in my life… " she trails off , still holding her newborn . " so many hopes i have , " she says . " i need for my baby a house — to live by myself , and take care of my baby . " 
__label__relevant international women ’ s day should remind us there is a ways to go toward gender equity article content continuedin saying this , i need only look as far as my own family ’ s experience . my grandmother grew up in cape breton , nova scotia , where she was taken out of school by her own parents in grade 4 to become a housemaid . her daughter — my mother — was afforded the opportunity to finish high school , but did not have the opportunity to attend university . she only did so much later in life , completing a university degree by correspondence — never once setting foot inside a university classroom — while raising six children at home . things have undoubtedly improved in canada in terms of women ’ s education in recent decades , and my daughters and i have benefited from that . but we too have faced challenges , including sexual harassment and assault . countless other women in canada have their own heartbreaking stories of harassment , discrimination , pay inequity , and domestic violence . and the hundreds of cases of missing and murdered indigenous women and girls in our country constitute a national tragedy . i wish i could stand up and say that canada leads the world in gender equity , but sadly i cannot . i do remain hopeful , however . gender equity is not an issue for women ; it is an issue for all of us . we need to keep talking about women ’ s issues , highlight the challenges and inequalities that exist for women , and put measures in place to remove these challenges . and we need to recognize and address the challenges that are faced by others in canada – indigenous peoples , minorities , newcomers , members of the lgbtq2+ community , and persons with disabilities , for example . canada should be a just and fair place for everyone . so on international women ’ s day — and every day , for that matter — let ’ s all reflect on the kind of country and world in which we want to live . let ’ s work collectively to ensure that our daughters and granddaughters can say that in canada , they and everyone else have equal opportunities in life . vianne timmons , president and vice - chancellor , university of regina
__label__relevant 20 years after jassi sidhu was murdered , court case continues twenty years ago , jassi sidhu was kidnapped with her husband during a visit to the punjab region in india . the 25 - year - old , born and raised in maple ridge , was brutally murdered , and her husband , sukhwinder mithu sidhu , badly beaten . in the years since , a dozen people were charged with sidhu ' s murder , and seven were tried . after trials and appeals , three individuals are serving sentences for sidhu ' s killing on june 8 , 2000 . however , the alleged instigators of the attack , sidhu ' s mother and uncle , malkit sidhu and surjit badesha — who are accused of plotting her murder because they disapproved of her marrying sukhwinder mithu sidhu — were only extradited to india to stand trial in 2019 . in india , the pair , who are both in their 70s , are standing trial on charges of supplying money to contract killers in order to have jassi sidhu killed . fabian dawson , a former deputy editor of the province and vancouver sun , broke the original story about sidhu ' s murder in 2000 and has written extensively about the case . he said sidhu ' s murder has been a galvanizing look into family violence , extradition issues , and forced marriage . " you can extrapolate a lot of issues from this particular case and look deeper into the systematic abuse that is happening with some of the indian women in canada , " dawson said . watch the fifth estate documentary on the jassi sidhu case : justice for jassi : a young woman from b . c . was killed during a visit to india in the year 2000 . her mother and uncle allegedly planned it because she married a poor indian rickshaw driver . 45 : 10but justice for sidhu could still be a long time coming . dawson says it ' s merely the beginning of the case in india after two decades , and the trial could go on for some time . " assuming they get convicted and the appeal processes start kicking in . you have an appeal process to the highest court in punjab , and then after that probably an appeal to the supreme court of india , so it could take anything from now another five to seven years before any kind of conclusion can be arrived at , " he said . 
__label__relevant quebec judge removes teenager from family home after she flees forced marriage a quebec youth court judge has removed a 16 - year - old girl in victoriaville from her family after she was forced into a marriage with an older man who insisted she wear a hijab , rifled through her cellphone and controlled who she could see . the girl was so afraid in the weeks before the ceremony was to happen last spring that she ran to a neighbour ' s house and locked herself in a bedroom . after a noisy and violent confrontation between the neighbours and the girl ' s family , police escorted the girl to safety . in july , a youth court judge granted the girl ' s request to be placed in hiding with a foster family until she turns 18 . " this teenager has the right to emancipate herself , and aspire to more legitimate personal achievements such as marrying someone she loves , wanting to practise a profession and deciding herself what she wears and who she sees , " youth court judge bruno langelier said in his decision . " she has the right to freedom of conscience and religion , to be free to decide her future and not to be subjected to a fiancé who controls everything and who obliges her to wear the hijab . she wants to be free , and free from the dictates of the men around her , " langelier continued . youth protection laws forbid cbc news from naming the girl or any details that might identify her . marriage ' contract ' the girl and her family came to canada in 2016 as refugee claimants . a copy of a marriage contract dated may 2018 between the girl ' s family and her fiancé ' s family was entered into evidence in court . the girl was 15 years old at the time and the fiancé was in his 20s . the contract shows the fiancé ' s family agreed to pay a dowry of $3 , 000 to the girl ' s family , and that the marriage ceremony would take place in may 2019 . the contract was signed by the girl ' s father , the fiancé , some witnesses and an imam , but not by the girl herself . neighbours protect girllast april , just weeks before the marriage was to take place , the girl ran to a neighbour ' s house , begging for help . according to the court decision , the girl ' s mother , brother and her fiancé showed up at the neighbour ' s house demanding she be turned over . soon other members of the community showed up to support the girl ' s family and things degenerated . " people were aggressive and there was jostling . the fiancé tried to enter the neighbour ' s home . he insisted and found his hand crushed by the door , suffering an injury , " the decision said . the neighbours protected the girl and prevented her family from bringing her home until police arrived , along with youth protection workers , who took the girl into custody . girl forced to wear hijab , kept from friendsthe girl told the youth protection workers she didn ' t want to go home because her parents and fiancé were controlling every aspect of her life . she said in the months since the marriage was planned , the fiancé controlled what she could wear and her choice of friends . she said he refused to allow her to wear makeup and forced her to wear a hijab . and she said he prevented her from talking to people , and decided when and where she could go out . she told the workers she didn ' t love her fiancé , and that her refusal to marry him would mean her parents would be forced to reimburse the dowry . she said she feared reprisals from her parents , her fiancé and other members of the community . the girls ' parents initially told youth protection workers the girl ' s refusal to get married would dishonour the familythey changed their story later when they testified in youth court , saying the girl ' s refusal wouldn ' t dishonour the family and that she wasn ' t being forced into the marriage . family , fiancé try to explainthe girl ' s father and her fiancé both testified at the youth court hearing . the father tried to downplay the significance of the marriage contract , calling it a " small agreement between parents " that was more like a promise to get married . he also testified about his reasons for wanting his daughter to get married to someone he approved of . " here ( in canada ) all the girls from my country have changed . families are afraid . our daughters come here , they talk back to their mothers , they want to leave . all my friends are afraid that their daughters will leave the house , " the father testified . in his testimony , the fiancé admitted to controlling some elements of the girl ' s life , saying that she now had a responsibility to him and to their household . " everything must be within certain limits . it is forbidden that she speaks with a man , or that she speaks with a stranger or even greets one with her hand , " he testified . judge believes girl " the court believes the teenager about the fears she feels . certainly she is under pressure and control to marry the fiancé , " langelier said in his decision . he noted that the girl was so afraid of her family and fiancé that she didn ' t want to be present at the hearing . he also noted that the marriage contract entered into evidence appeared to be illegal , and that the marriage was never properly registered with the government . he said the imam who signed the contract should have known the marriage was illegal . " the planned marriage certainly was in line with the customs of the family ' s home country . however , these customs cannot prevail in the province of quebec . there is only one rule of law , and it applies to all residents of the province , " langelier said . " the court acknowledges the existence of overwhelming evidence that the safety and development of the adolescent girl is compromised as a result of psychological abuse , " he continued . langelier ordered that the girl be placed in custody of a foster family until she ' s 18 . the ruling stipulated that her new address must remain confidential , and that she wasn ' t obliged to have contact with her parents unless she wished to . youth protection officials refused to comment on the case , citing confidentiality . 
__label__relevant stephanie parze family to start foundation for domestic violence victims in her name staten island , n . y . - - eighty seven days after stephanie parze went missing , she was found by two teenagers on route 9 near old mill road in a wooded area in old bridge , new jersey . now , her parents say they will start a foundation for domestic violence victims and missing people in her name . at an emotional press conference monday morning , edward parze , stephanie parze ’ s father , said that his family will create the foundation in “ the coming weeks . ” “ we ’ re not going to stop our efforts even though we know she ’ s home , ” he said . the foundation , according to edward parze , will “ bring awareness to battered women and missing people , ” calling the issue of domestic abuse “ an epidemic . ” “ this is an extremely somber day for us , ” he said . “ our family is devastated , our friends our community . ” “ our lives are never going to be the same . ” authorities and the parze family had been searching on staten island and in new jersey since her disappearance . in november , the nypd and police and other emergency responders from all over new jersey converged on long pond park in richmond valley for a major canvass . it was at least the second search of that area by law enforcement personnel . the family and more than 100 volunteers also searched various south shore locations on staten island , including tottenville , prince ’ s bay and wolfe ’ s pond park . “ we have searched over 60 locations , ” edward parze said , thanking the “ thousands ” of people who aided in the various efforts to find his daughter . “ i ’ ve never seen such a devoted group of committed people in my life , ” he said . “ the communities have bonded together from here all the way out to staten island and all throughout the country . ” stephanie parze , 25 , of freehold , had been missing since october . her remains were found in a wooded area off route 9 in old bridge on sunday , jan . 26 , 2020 . authorities believe that former staten islander john ozbilgen was responsible for the death of the missing freehold , new jersey , resident . during the investigation , ozbilgen , 29 , of freehold , was charged with possessing child pornography . he committed suicide at his home on nov . 22 . authorities believe that ozbilgen acted alone when he killed stephanie parze and disposed of her body , monmouth county prosecutor christopher gramiccioni said . authorities had concluded that he was responsible for parze ’ s death , and a suicide note he left behind essentially reaffirmed their belief , the prosecutor said . noting the difficulty of prosecuting a homicide without a body , authorities were working actively toward charging ozbilgen prior to his suicide , he added . the middlesex county medical examiner will determine the cause and manner of her death , the prosecutor said . “ i think the most important development to focus on was that stephanie was found , ” gramiccioni said . “ of course , all of us hoped and prayed that we would find her alive , even against the odds and the evidence in this case . but today , we sincerely hope and pray that the parze family can have some level of closure and lay their daughter to rest in peace . 
__label__relevant migrant farm workers vulnerable to sexual violence : u of t expert after teresa filed a report against her farm employer for sexual assault , he asked her how much money it would take for her to retract her statement . in the spring of 2014 , teresa ( not her real name ) was attacked by her boss on his farm in british columbia . on the day the assault occurred , the boss sent teresa ’ s male co - workers to another farm for the day , leaving her and another female farm worker behind . while they were trellising grape vines , the women ran out of twine . teresa ’ s boss told her to come and get more twine inside a shed , where she says he forced his mouth onto hers and began grabbing her inappropriately . she managed to shake off his grip and run back to her co - worker in the vineyard for support . it was her word against his , and the crown decided there wasn ’ t enough evidence to proceed with the charges . in canada , 46 per cent of women survivors don ’ t even report sexual assault because they think there is insufficient proof . teresa is a single mom from baja california , mexico . since 2012 , she has been supporting her parents and two daughters by spending up to eight months each year on canadian farms through the seasonal agricultural worker program ( sawp ) . teresa was concerned that speaking up about the sexual assault might hurt her and her female co - worker ’ s future job chances . she says mexico ’ s secretariat of labour and social welfare verbally warns sawp workers each season before they leave mexico : “ ‘you ’ re coming to canada to work , not to cause problems . ’ if you complain about something , they kick you out of the program . ” elise hjalmarson ( author provided ) after the assault , teresa was transferred to a small vegetable farm , where her new employer provided accommodations in a rodent - infested trailer without a functional lock . teresa ’ s attacker lived in the adjacent village in british columbia ’ s southern interior . she suffered from recurrent nightmares . “ i was afraid . i thought he was going to show up or that he was going to do something to me . ” our connections with migrant women survivors of sexual assault are based on field research we have conducted since 2013 with migrant farm workers in canada . we are also volunteer members of grassroots advocacy organizations in british columbia and ontario that provide front - line support for farm workers . canada ’ s sawp is the main agricultural stream of the temporary foreign worker program . it began in 1966 in response to lobbying from farmers and that year in ontario , 264 jamaican workers were hired . since then , the program has expanded to all canadian provinces , bringing workers from mexico and 11 caribbean countries . in 2017 , approximately 40 , 000 workers came to canada as a part of the sawp – around 7 , 500 to british columbia . of those , less than four per cent were women . the structure of the sawp heightens the power imbalance between workers and employers , amplifying women ’ s vulnerability to sexual assault . work permits are tied to a specific employer , so getting fired typically means getting deported . workers in abusive workplaces often have difficulty transferring to a new boss . to be rehired the following season , a farm worker must receive a positive evaluation from their employer . power imbalancesthe sawp requirements effectively deter worker complaints about labour practices , housing conditions , workplace injuries or violence . the sawp contains no pathway to citizenship , even for men and women who have worked in canada for decades . workers and critics of the program argue that permanently categorizing migrants as “ non - citizens ” means they have fewer rights and protections than canadian workers . the sawp has been a boon for growers , who have access to a seemingly unending pool of workers whose urgent need for income makes them unlikely to dissent . alongside the temporary foreign worker program , a smaller number of migrants arrive in canada on tourist visas and work under the table during the harvest . luz ( not her real name ) , a 30 - year - old actor from sonora , mexico , was one such tourist . in the summer of 2015 , luz arrived in british columbia hoping to work for a few months to save some money to pay off her student loans . while employed on a cherry orchard in the similkameen valley , her boss sexually assaulted her . on the day she was attacked , her boss sent her co - workers to other parts of the farm and then grabbed her while she was walking through an empty storehouse . he forcibly groped her and began kissing her neck . luz demanded he stop and tried pushing him away , but he was significantly bigger than her . her mind was racing , “ i ’ m all alone , no one ’ s around , i could run , i could yell . but if i yell , who ’ s going to hear me ? a thousand things came into my head , and i didn ’ t know what to do . ” after much deliberation , luz decided not to go report the groping to the canadian police as she feared deportation . while sexual assault in general is the most underreported violent crime in canada , a precarious citizenship status presents an additional barrier to reporting for migrant women ( both undocumented and government - authorized ) . both teresa and luz said a fear of deportation was a major factor in deciding whether to report their assaults . both women knew of other workers who had been sent home for complaining to authorities about living conditions , workplace injuries , bullying and harassment . solidarity with #metoo across north americadespite immense injustices for migrant women , there are slow signs of change . in 2015 , the human rights tribunal of ontario awarded more than $200 , 000 to two sisters from mexico hired under the temporary foreign worker program . the tribunal found that presteve foods , a fish - packing plant in ontario , had created a “ sexually poisoned work environment . ” thirty - nine migrant women from thailand and mexico participated as complainants . the woman who received the highest damages , known as o . p . t . , described how the former plant owner forced her to perform sexual acts , threatening deportation if she didn ’ t comply . in her statement , o . p . t . highlighted how canada ’ s migrant worker program continues to create the conditions for abuse : “ under the temporary foreign worker program , the boss has all the power – over your money , house , status , everything …that happened to me eight years ago , and the system is still the same . ” amid the pressure for systemic change from movements like #metoo and times up , farm worker women are pointing to the specific ways race , class and gender can amplify women ’ s risk of workplace sexual abuse . in november , the alianza nacional de campesinas , representing more than 700 , 000 women farm workers in the united states , released a letter in solidarity with hollywood actors who had survived sexual assault , highlighting the gender inequity that pervades both industries . the coalition of immokalee workers ( ciw ) , a farm worker - led organization , has been calling on the wendy ’ s fast - food chain to sign onto an independent workplace monitoring program that would help prevent sexual violence in fields where the restaurant ’ s tomatoes are produced . after a five - day freedom fast , ciw farm worker women marched in new york city . some were accompanied by their daughters . solutions for a better futuredespite all the pain she has experienced in canada , teresa says thinking about her own daughters gives her the strength to keep going . as part of a cultural shift toward gender equity , we need to revamp canada ’ s laws , institutions and policies to better protect all women , including farm workers . the b . c . government has promised to establish a registry that could help prevent migrant workers from being charged illegal recruitment fees , which is a positive starting point . as supported by u . s . research on sexual assault services , provinces could also set up anonymous , toll - free and multilingual crisis hotlines for workers , including those who are undocumented . to address the multiple barriers faced by migrant farm worker women to health care , researchers have recommended enrolling workers in provincial health - care plans instead of private insurance schemes . free legal services and english - language classes could also strengthen women ’ s ability to assert their rights . workers should have the right to a fair appeal process before deportation . ultimately , the canadian government should eliminate tied work permits and provide migrant workers with full immigration status , two steps that would immediately lessen the disproportionate power of the employer . such changes would also go a long way toward ensuring that those who do the vital work of growing the food we eat receive the respect , freedom and dignity they deserve . anelyse weiler is a phd candidate in sociology and pierre elliott trudeau foundation scholar at the university of toronto . this article was originally published on the conversation . read the original article . 
__label__relevant toronto victim of machete attack likely had no choice but to report abuse : domestic violence expert sitting in her office on lansdowne avenue , the executive director of the south asian women ’ s centre said she is sad thinking about tharshika jeganathan — the victim of a deadly machete attack in scarborough on wednesday night “ i think we have to be honest with what ’ s going on in our community , especially with young women brides in our community . there are too many cases of abuse with newcomer brides , ” said kripa sekhar . sekhar said 27 - year - old jeganathan , who was married in 2015 before coming to canada in 2017 to join her husband 38 - year - old sasikaran thanapalasingam , was likely terrified when she went to police in march of that year to report that her then - husband had allegedly assaulted her . “ i think she was forced to report it because she was so afraid for her life . otherwise i don ’ t think she would have done it because she would have wanted to save her marriage , ” she said . story continues below advertisementcourt documents obtained by global news found that thanapalasingam , who has now been charged with the first - degree murder of jeganathan , was charged with assault in march 2017 . but after breaching the conditions of his release by contacting his wife in may 2017 , he was given a probation order restricting him from having any contact with jeganathan for a year . in february , a peace bond was again issued prohibiting thanapalasingam from going near his estranged wife . it was still in effect when he surrendered to officers at toronto police 42 division wednesday night . “ once a restraining order is issued , a woman ’ s life is even more in jeopardy , ” said sekhar . “ i think the issue of violence and abuse against women is a global issue , but in different communities it manifests itself differently . ” tweet thissekhar said in most cases of arranged marriages in south asia , there ’ s usually a demand that the bride ’ s family bring jewelry and money to the groom and pay for the wedding . and sometimes coming to canada to join the husband is also seen as a privilege . “ if a woman goes to police back home , there are consequences . her life is now in danger — she has shamed the family , she has also disgraced the man , ” explained sekhar . story continues below advertisementsekhar said only about 10 per cent of the clients who access the counselling services at the south asian women ’ s centre , including a program entitled “ violence against women , ” finally make a decision to leave . the centre works closely with the shelters to get women in when they ’ re ready . they give women safety plans and provide them with legal support . read more : woman dead after machete attack in east - end toronto and suspect in custody , police saymirusha yogarajah , a social justice advocate for the tamil community , said the stigma around domestic violence and around divorce means many women have a difficult time leaving a relationship . “ it is common knowledge that [domestic violence] happens , but we fail to acknowledge it as a community . there ’ s a lot of dismissal of women ’ s stories . i ’ m tired , it ’ s too pervasive , ” said yogarajah , who has written poetry about women who have been subjected to domestic violence at the hands of their husbands or fathers . she said she ’ s alarmed because she doesn ’ t see a shift in the culture , adding she believes there ’ s a cultural acceptance of violence that ’ s perpetuated with movies and media perpetuating misogyny . story continues below advertisementyogarajah said there needs to be more awareness , support and access to resources . speaking about jeganathan , she said she feels sad that her life ended so tragically . “ i think that she was incredibly brave , and i don ’ t know that a peace bond or a restraining order is sufficient to protect a woman . i don ’ t think the system was made to protect her , ” yogarajah said . rip tharshika jeganathan . domestic violence is pervasive in our community and tamil women and girls end up being disposable . there needs to be accountability in the community . i am tired . https : / / t . co / lokjxbflpd — mirusha yogarajah ( @mirushayogaraja ) september 13 , 2019kripa sekhar of the south asian women ’ s centre says a woman ’ s life is more in jeopardy after a restraining order is issued , regarding the fatal machete attack of tharshika jeganathan . sekhar says roughly 10% of women who access domestic violence counselling here , decide to leave . pic . twitter . com / rapqzck4vd — catherine mcdonald ( @cmcdonaldglobal ) september 13 , 2019story continues below advertisement
__label__relevant homeless , pregnant , covid - positive — and bearing the brunt of a pandemic inside a labour and delivery room at toronto ' s michael garron hospital , diamond is in her bed , steeling herself for the birth of her first child . outside the door , a sign warns hospital staff to take " droplet precautions " before entering . diamond ' s midwife jenna bly is by her side , dressed head - to - toe in protective equipment — a gown layered over her scrubs and tucked into her gloves , with her face mask leaving only her eyes visible to her frightened client . on this day in april , diamond is nine months pregnant . homeless . a victim of domestic abuse . and , as of less than a day earlier , officially covid - positive . diamond wonders if she ' s dying . bly worries what will happen if she does . the midwife broaches a grim subject : how to prepare a living will for her client , who ' s just in her 30s , and whose only symptom — so far — has been a bit of a cough . " i didn ' t want this baby to just go into the foster system without any plan . i wanted to know what she wanted for the baby , " bly later recalls . " so we spent the few hours before the baby was born coordinating with various supports , to create an emergency plan if she were to go on a ventilator . " she pauses . " it ' s not something i usually do at a birth . " but these are not typical times . diamond , whose identity cbc news is concealing to protect her safety , is among the most vulnerable members of society — a new immigrant who fled her toronto home after a violent assault , forcing her into the city ' s shelter system with no clear path to stable housing . researchers and advocates alike believe she ' s just one example of the kind of person covid - 19 strikes the hardest . in a city like toronto , there are more of these people than you ' d think . " unfortunately , her story is shockingly not uncommon , " says kaitlin schwan , senior researcher at the canadian observatory on homelessness . " for folks on the front lines , you ' re really just trying to scrape together resources to support someone in this situation . " pandemic ' sheds light on inequalities ' it ' s been close to four months since toronto ' s first suspected case of covid - 19 . since then , roughly 24 , 000 people have been confirmed infected across the province , with more than 2 , 000 ontarians dying to date . research from ices , a not - for - profit research institute , suggests many of those positive cases have come from marginalized communities — neighbourhoods where poverty and housing instability intersect . " this pandemic sheds light on inequalities we have already , " says dr . astrid guttmann , chief science officer at ices and a physician at sickkids hospital . compared with ontarians not tested for covid - 19 , those tested — and those confirmed positive — were more likely to live in neighbourhoods with greater residential instability , material deprivation and dependency , and lower income status , the research found . those confirmed positive also were more likely to live in communities with a relatively greater concentration of immigrants and visible minorities . the findings are still preliminary , but so far the results aren ' t surprising , guttmann adds . that ' s because researchers have long known poverty and marginalization put people at a greater risk of poor health , which can be tied to any combination of factors from high stress levels , to food insecurity , to crowded — or nonexistent — housing . " what covid has done is just made this unignorable , " says dr . andrew boozary , an assistant professor at the university of toronto ' s dalla lana school of public health . " but we ' ve ignored it and been willfully blind to these outcomes for decades . " waiting for test results , pregnant and aloneit ' s now may , and diamond is sitting in the lobby of a downtown hotel , holding her weeks - old baby girl . the newborn is wrapped up in a white blanket with little pink polka dots with her face covered by a black - and - white striped towel . her mother speaks slowly , her quiet voice muffled by her blue surgical mask . " i ' m in canada by myself . i don ' t have family here , " she says . diamond moved here from ethiopia five years ago . earlier this year , she first entered a toronto women ' s shelter after fleeing domestic abuse , and while she ' s not sure if that ' s where she caught the disease during the third trimester of her pregnancy , it ' s a possibility . " in the shelter , i lived in one room with three people , " she explains . " sharing the washroom — everything . " toronto midwife jenna bly demonstrates the level of personal protective equipment she now wears while helping vulnerable covid - positive clients . ( evan mitsui / cbc ) that ' s where she first met bly , who has spent the last year - and - a - half working with precariously - housed clients as the creator and co - lead for south riverdale community health centre ' s match midwives program , a role she shares with fellow co - lead shezeen suleman . after diamond tested positive for covid - 19 , the hours leading up to her delivery in mid - april were full of fear and uncertainty for both women . for bly , who is married with three little girls of her own , it marked her first time helping deliver a baby for a covid - positive mother . while getting ready to head to the hospital , she wondered if she was putting her own family at risk . " there ' s this deadly virus ravaging the world , and i had to be in the room with it , " bly says . " then i got in the room , with this person that i knew , and i was just providing care . " thankfully , after delivering a healthy baby , her client didn ' t need to use the end - of - life directives in her living will — her symptoms never worsened beyond a cough . but who was going to care for her now , this new mother with a contagious disease ? at the urging of bly and the midwife team , diamond and her newborn were later admitted to toronto ' s so - called " covid hotel . " there , on a site near an industrial area of the city — the exact location is being kept secret from the general public — residents experiencing both homelessness and covid - 19 are able to recover under the city ' s watch . ' the only lasting solution is housing ' the 200 - bed recovery facility opened in april in partnership with the university health network , inner city health associates and other community health providers , and provides medical support and meals to clients and even toys , which are cleaned in between uses , for their children . so far , more than 210 people like diamond have come and gone , with close to 80 clients currently staying at the site . mary - anne bédard , general manager of toronto ' s shelter , support and housing administration , says a second site opened on may 16 in a downtown location , which is providing a space for people awaiting test results and close contacts of confirmed or suspected cases . bédard says these sites are opening at " record speed . " others say the city lagged behind in its efforts , leaving too many homeless residents stuck in the close quarters of toronto ' s jam - packed shelter system as the city ' s case count kept rising . " it certainly was a catalyst for spread , " says rafi aaron , a spokesperson for the toronto - based interfaith coalition to fight homelessness . " because , at the best of times , the conditions people were in were breeding grounds for covid - 19 . " crowded shelters , like other congregate settings , have proved to be a flash point for transmission . as of may 20 , toronto has experienced 352 covid - 19 cases tied to outbreaks in the shelter system . dr . andrew boozary , an assistant professor at university of toronto ' s dalla lana school of public heath , was co - lead on the project . ( university health network ) " the primary policy intervention has been ' stay at home , ' but that ' s not something we can do amid housing precarity , " stresses schwan , who is also co - chair for the recently - launched women ' s national housing and homelessness network . " we finally understand the centrality of housing to well - being — to health care — because of covid . " boozary , the assistant professor at u of t , calls housing " the only lasting solution . " with covid - 19 further exposing the health disparities and vulnerabilities of marginalized residents , he says all levels of government need to build strategies to house all canadians . and sooner , not later , amid growing fears the cases among the country ' s poor and homeless could keep rising , with a ripple effect long after the pandemic ends . " being able to provide people with decent comfortable housing has health - care benefits , cost benefits , economic benefits , " boozary says . " and most importantly , there ' s human dignity . " slipping through the cracksfor diamond , the covid - 19 crisis is just another hurdle she didn ' t need . after recovering from her illness at the " covid hotel , " she was sent to her current living quarters in another city - operated hotel room , kilometres away , with her baby . she ' s not sure where she ' ll go next . bly , who is still checking on diamond with the match midwives team , is trying to connect her to housing providers , hoping to find her a permanent roof over her head . but with years - long wait lists for social housing , the future looks bleak . bly worries her client , and others like her , will simply slip through the cracks . diamond speaks to cbc news reporter lauren pelley in the lobby of a downtown toronto hotel while cradling her infant daughter . ( evan mitsui / cbc ) while speaking to cbc news in the hotel lobby , diamond starts crying , her soft voice cracking . " i ' ve struggled too much in my life , by myself , shelter to shelter , " she says . " no one can understand what happened in your life . sometimes i ' m sad . angry . shouting , because so many things are happening in my life… " she trails off , still holding her newborn . " so many hopes i have , " she says . " i need for my baby a house — to live by myself , and take care of my baby . " 
__label__relevant woman who shared story of domestic violence has encouraging words for others this story is part of stopping domestic violence , a cbc news series looking at the crisis of intimate partner violence in canada and what can be done to end it . melissa gulliver broke down in tears when she heard her abuser was in custody , more than nine months after a warrant was issued for his arrest . it was a moment she believed might never happen . " now there is actually going to be an end to it . there will be a point where i receive the email from my [victim services] co - ordinator and it will say , ' it ' s over , ' and that feeling is like winning the lotto . it is surreal , " gulliver told cbc news . the power of speaking out tells me that when people are educated and aware of what is happening they continue the conversation you started . - melissa gullivergulliver , who is from st . john ' s , spoke publicly of the assault she suffered at the hands of her former partner , ashton kennedy , 26 , and the subsequent court process , which ended with a warrant for his arrest . the day after her story aired on cbc news , kennedy turned himself in to royal newfoundland constabulary headquarters in st . john ' s . he will remain in custody until at least tuesday . he ' s been charged with assault , failure to comply with probation , failure to attend court , and three counts of failing to comply with an undertaking . ashton kennedy , 26 , poses for a photo with his dog . ( ashton kennedy / facebook ) " going public with my domestic violence experience showed me that people care , that you are not alone , and asking for help is not a sign of weakness but a sign of strength because you are taking back your control through using your voice in the silence , " gulliver said . " the power of speaking out tells me that when people are educated and aware of what is happening they continue the conversation you started , they come together and support you and the abuser can no longer hide and twist the truth in their favour . " gaining confidence and strengthkennedy assaulted gulliver in their shared apartment in december 2018 . police later told gulliver that kennedy had already been convicted of assaulting another woman , from a previous relationship . he pleaded guilty to the assault against gulliver , went to family violence intervention court , then stopped showing up . gulliver said the result has left her feeling empowered , and she hopes others will feel empowered , too , to take first steps like planning to leave or speaking out . " when you do you will feel so freeing that you will run with that and gain more confidence and strength as you go forward , " she said . " remember this is your journey , this is your process , you are not a victim of domestic violence — you are a survivor . you are surviving now and you will continue to survive . i am here for you , and there is a whole community of us ready for you . " read more from cbc newfoundland and labrador
__label__relevant migrant farm workers vulnerable to sexual violence : u of t expert after teresa filed a report against her farm employer for sexual assault , he asked her how much money it would take for her to retract her statement . in the spring of 2014 , teresa ( not her real name ) was attacked by her boss on his farm in british columbia . on the day the assault occurred , the boss sent teresa ’ s male co - workers to another farm for the day , leaving her and another female farm worker behind . while they were trellising grape vines , the women ran out of twine . teresa ’ s boss told her to come and get more twine inside a shed , where she says he forced his mouth onto hers and began grabbing her inappropriately . she managed to shake off his grip and run back to her co - worker in the vineyard for support . it was her word against his , and the crown decided there wasn ’ t enough evidence to proceed with the charges . in canada , 46 per cent of women survivors don ’ t even report sexual assault because they think there is insufficient proof . teresa is a single mom from baja california , mexico . since 2012 , she has been supporting her parents and two daughters by spending up to eight months each year on canadian farms through the seasonal agricultural worker program ( sawp ) . teresa was concerned that speaking up about the sexual assault might hurt her and her female co - worker ’ s future job chances . she says mexico ’ s secretariat of labour and social welfare verbally warns sawp workers each season before they leave mexico : “ ‘you ’ re coming to canada to work , not to cause problems . ’ if you complain about something , they kick you out of the program . ” elise hjalmarson ( author provided ) after the assault , teresa was transferred to a small vegetable farm , where her new employer provided accommodations in a rodent - infested trailer without a functional lock . teresa ’ s attacker lived in the adjacent village in british columbia ’ s southern interior . she suffered from recurrent nightmares . “ i was afraid . i thought he was going to show up or that he was going to do something to me . ” our connections with migrant women survivors of sexual assault are based on field research we have conducted since 2013 with migrant farm workers in canada . we are also volunteer members of grassroots advocacy organizations in british columbia and ontario that provide front - line support for farm workers . canada ’ s sawp is the main agricultural stream of the temporary foreign worker program . it began in 1966 in response to lobbying from farmers and that year in ontario , 264 jamaican workers were hired . since then , the program has expanded to all canadian provinces , bringing workers from mexico and 11 caribbean countries . in 2017 , approximately 40 , 000 workers came to canada as a part of the sawp – around 7 , 500 to british columbia . of those , less than four per cent were women . the structure of the sawp heightens the power imbalance between workers and employers , amplifying women ’ s vulnerability to sexual assault . work permits are tied to a specific employer , so getting fired typically means getting deported . workers in abusive workplaces often have difficulty transferring to a new boss . to be rehired the following season , a farm worker must receive a positive evaluation from their employer . power imbalancesthe sawp requirements effectively deter worker complaints about labour practices , housing conditions , workplace injuries or violence . the sawp contains no pathway to citizenship , even for men and women who have worked in canada for decades . workers and critics of the program argue that permanently categorizing migrants as “ non - citizens ” means they have fewer rights and protections than canadian workers . the sawp has been a boon for growers , who have access to a seemingly unending pool of workers whose urgent need for income makes them unlikely to dissent . alongside the temporary foreign worker program , a smaller number of migrants arrive in canada on tourist visas and work under the table during the harvest . luz ( not her real name ) , a 30 - year - old actor from sonora , mexico , was one such tourist . in the summer of 2015 , luz arrived in british columbia hoping to work for a few months to save some money to pay off her student loans . while employed on a cherry orchard in the similkameen valley , her boss sexually assaulted her . on the day she was attacked , her boss sent her co - workers to other parts of the farm and then grabbed her while she was walking through an empty storehouse . he forcibly groped her and began kissing her neck . luz demanded he stop and tried pushing him away , but he was significantly bigger than her . her mind was racing , “ i ’ m all alone , no one ’ s around , i could run , i could yell . but if i yell , who ’ s going to hear me ? a thousand things came into my head , and i didn ’ t know what to do . ” after much deliberation , luz decided not to go report the groping to the canadian police as she feared deportation . while sexual assault in general is the most underreported violent crime in canada , a precarious citizenship status presents an additional barrier to reporting for migrant women ( both undocumented and government - authorized ) . both teresa and luz said a fear of deportation was a major factor in deciding whether to report their assaults . both women knew of other workers who had been sent home for complaining to authorities about living conditions , workplace injuries , bullying and harassment . solidarity with #metoo across north americadespite immense injustices for migrant women , there are slow signs of change . in 2015 , the human rights tribunal of ontario awarded more than $200 , 000 to two sisters from mexico hired under the temporary foreign worker program . the tribunal found that presteve foods , a fish - packing plant in ontario , had created a “ sexually poisoned work environment . ” thirty - nine migrant women from thailand and mexico participated as complainants . the woman who received the highest damages , known as o . p . t . , described how the former plant owner forced her to perform sexual acts , threatening deportation if she didn ’ t comply . in her statement , o . p . t . highlighted how canada ’ s migrant worker program continues to create the conditions for abuse : “ under the temporary foreign worker program , the boss has all the power – over your money , house , status , everything …that happened to me eight years ago , and the system is still the same . ” amid the pressure for systemic change from movements like #metoo and times up , farm worker women are pointing to the specific ways race , class and gender can amplify women ’ s risk of workplace sexual abuse . in november , the alianza nacional de campesinas , representing more than 700 , 000 women farm workers in the united states , released a letter in solidarity with hollywood actors who had survived sexual assault , highlighting the gender inequity that pervades both industries . the coalition of immokalee workers ( ciw ) , a farm worker - led organization , has been calling on the wendy ’ s fast - food chain to sign onto an independent workplace monitoring program that would help prevent sexual violence in fields where the restaurant ’ s tomatoes are produced . after a five - day freedom fast , ciw farm worker women marched in new york city . some were accompanied by their daughters . solutions for a better futuredespite all the pain she has experienced in canada , teresa says thinking about her own daughters gives her the strength to keep going . as part of a cultural shift toward gender equity , we need to revamp canada ’ s laws , institutions and policies to better protect all women , including farm workers . the b . c . government has promised to establish a registry that could help prevent migrant workers from being charged illegal recruitment fees , which is a positive starting point . as supported by u . s . research on sexual assault services , provinces could also set up anonymous , toll - free and multilingual crisis hotlines for workers , including those who are undocumented . to address the multiple barriers faced by migrant farm worker women to health care , researchers have recommended enrolling workers in provincial health - care plans instead of private insurance schemes . free legal services and english - language classes could also strengthen women ’ s ability to assert their rights . workers should have the right to a fair appeal process before deportation . ultimately , the canadian government should eliminate tied work permits and provide migrant workers with full immigration status , two steps that would immediately lessen the disproportionate power of the employer . such changes would also go a long way toward ensuring that those who do the vital work of growing the food we eat receive the respect , freedom and dignity they deserve . anelyse weiler is a phd candidate in sociology and pierre elliott trudeau foundation scholar at the university of toronto . this article was originally published on the conversation . read the original article . 
__label__relevant when home isn ’ t safe : how coronavirus puts neighbours on front lines of abuse send this page to someone via emailthe phone rings less than it used to at the london abused women ’ s centre . the calls that do come through are often quick and concerning , with women warning the support worker that if their abuser comes in from the backyard or gets out of the shower , they ’ ll have to hang up with little to no warning . “ we do literally 10 seconds of safety planning , say call back whenever you can , and then they hang up , ” says megan walker , the centre ’ s executive director . she is worried , and you can hear it in her voice . across the country , support centres and shelters are grappling with the same heartbreaking problem : how to help someone be safe when they have been told to isolate at home but their home isn ’ t safe . story continues below advertisementadd in children and the sometimes very small confines of an apartment , and “ things are really brewing and bubbling , ” walker says . “ i ’ m just so worried about increases in violence and femicide . ” there is reason to be worried . “ times of social isolation increase the risk of domestic abuse , ” according to the european institute for gender equality , which also noted that even once the worst of the covid - 19 outbreak subsides , life doesn ’ t just snap back to normal . “ it can also be harder for women to leave their abuser once the crisis is over , due to the financial insecurity that might follow . ” tweet thisschools are closed , libraries are closed and community centres are closed . in ontario , where walker works , only essential services remain open . those closures have an important impact on stopping the spread of the new coronavirus , wrote lawyer pamela cross for the lawyer ’ s daily , but “ some of them play right into the hands of many abusers . ” domestic abuse is about power and control , something an abuser has more of when their victim is forced to isolate at home — which , as cross wrote , means an increase in “ opportunities for physical , sexual and emotional abuse . ” story continues below advertisement1 : 13 what is violence against women ? what is violence against women ? that negative impact will likely only get worse as time goes on , says petra molnar , acting director of the international human rights program at the university of toronto . so far , prime minister justin trudeau has earmarked $50 million for women ’ s shelters and sexual assault centres grappling with the spread of covid - 19 and their support work . generally speaking , molnar says offering solutions is “ tough because it highlights how limited our societal supports are for people going through domestic violence . ” those support gaps can be felt even more keenly when the person experiencing abuse is also part of a more marginalized community , molnar says , like refugees and immigrants . story continues below advertisementthat ’ s an intersection natalia jiménez , a colombian refugee whose partner tried to kill her after moving to canada , spoke with global news about last fall . jiménez struggled with the language barrier , a lack of understanding of canadian policies and laws and issues accessing support services and alternative housing options in addition to pressure within her community not to report the abuse she faced . “ i kept quiet and endured , ” she said . 5 : 07 how natalia jimenez survived an attempted murder how natalia jimenez survived an attempted murderjiménez and sonya cywink , an ojibway woman whose murder remains unsolved 25 years later , were the two honourees for last year ’ s shine the light campaign organized by the london abused women ’ s centre . the campaign has been revived this spring to highlight the role neighbours and community members can play in helping people escape abuse during covid - 19 isolation , walker says . story continues below advertisementcommunity involvement is a point she wants to underscore . a woman might only have a few minutes for a stolen phone call while her abuser is in the yard . and while walker says that might be enough for a little bit of safety planning , it ’ s still wholly inadequate ; the support worker on the other end often can ’ t offer an immediate shelter bed or hotel space . as a result , figuring out a safe alternative space to ride out the pandemic can mean time , including back - and - forth calls , that a woman at risk in her own home doesn ’ t necessarily have . on the contrary , a conversation with a neighbour on the street — even one with six feet of space in between — likely wouldn ’ t arouse as much suspicion . “ if you know somebody that ’ s isolated or might be struggling , make sure you ask the question : ‘are you being abused ? ’ ” walker says . “ they ’ re more likely to respond if they ’ re asked than just to come out ( with it ) themselves . ” 1 : 50 calgary social agencies brace for increased domestic violence calls during covid - 19 pandemic calgary social agencies brace for increased domestic violence calls during covid - 19 pandemiconce you know , you can offer to be the person who more safely co - ordinates calls with shelters and other support services as needed . story continues below advertisement “ i really believe it will be the neighbours who get women through this , ” walker says , encouraging neighbours to ask : “ are you being abused ? are you safe ? ” community - based responses to gender - based violence are an approach that the ontario council of agencies serving immigrants ( ocasi ) uses . it ’ s of particular importance for racialized and immigrant communities , says margarita pintin - perez , senior co - ordinator of ocasi ’ s initiative to end gender - based violence . pintin - perez echoes walker ’ s call to community action , particularly now , when people are at home with “ no reprieve ” from their abuser and the support systems they might usually be able to reach are working remotely . “ neighbours are definitely important , ” she says , encouraging people to check in on those around them , whether it ’ s saying hello on a walk or dropping letters off in mailboxes saying to text or call if you need anything . “ those are great gestures , really important because they can be life - saving for someone in these situations , ” pintin - perez says . ultimately , molnar says it ’ s important to remember that the covid - 19 outbreak isn ’ t creating new problems but exacerbating long - standing ones . women ’ s shelters and transition homes , often the starting point for those fleeing violence , are decades old , crumbling from lack of repairs and struggling to finance the life - saving services they provide . every day , shelters turn away 379 women and 215 children because of space constraints , according to a 2019 report from women ’ s shelters canada . the idea of having to turn someone away in the middle of a pandemic is “ so unbelievably sad , ” says silvia samsa , executive director of women ’ s habitat . story continues below advertisementwomen ’ s habitat has a 10 - room shelter on the western edge of toronto that ’ s been full since mid - march . already , they ’ ve shuttered community outreach programs , enacted strict rules around handwashing and hand sanitizer use and done their best to navigate toilet paper shortages when the women they serve don ’ t have the funds to stockpile toiletries . “ we ’ re really , really hoping we don ’ t have to go into quarantine , ” samsa says . molnar is heartened to see how much communities have already stepped up to support victims of domestic abuse amid the pandemic . still , she says , she wants to be clear that she is in no way advocating for local initiatives as the solution . “ as a society , we need to have a conversation around what our priorities are and what kind of funding and support are we able to provide to the violence against women sector . ” story continues below advertisementif you think someone is being abused , here is some information on supporting them and additional information on safety planning . if you think someone is abusive to their partner , here is a list of resources to help . 
__label__relevant refugee judge asks woman why her husband wouldn ’ t ‘just kill ’ her send this page to someone via emailhalima alari sat before a canadian refugee judge and tried to explain why her husband didn ’ t kill her . “ if he really wants you to be gone , why doesn ’ t he just kill you ? ” asked refugee judge yonatan rozenszajn during a hearing at canada ’ s immigration and refugee board ( irb ) in april . alari claims her husband raped and beat her for years , with the attacks getting worse each time she became pregnant with a girl . he wanted a boy , she said . wait , there ’ s more : how refugee claimants are being let down by judgesbut rozenszajn didn ’ t believe her . he also said he didn ’ t understand why the beatings continued for years after she left her husband and moved to a different city . story continues below advertisement “ why wouldn ’ t he just kill you then ? why spend all these years , just , like , harassing you ? ” he asked . alari ’ s lawyer , talia joundi , says rozenszajn ’ s line of questioning was an “ egregious violation ” of the irb ’ s guidelines set out for cases involving allegations of sexual assault and domestic abuse . 1 : 46 woman angry after refugee judge asked why husband wouldn ’ t ‘just kill ’ her instead of beating her for years woman angry after refugee judge asked why husband wouldn ’ t ‘just kill ’ her instead of beating her for yearsand experts who spoke with global news — including more than a dozen immigration lawyers — say there are refugee judges who often do not apply or who improperly apply the board ’ s guidelines . the consequences of these problematic decisions , they say , can mean the difference between life and death for some claimants . “ [he] violated those guidelines in a shocking way , ” joundi said . story continues below advertisementrozenszajn rejected alari ’ s claim for refugee status , saying there were too many omissions and inconsistencies in her story . “ i do not believe what she says , ” rozenszajn wrote in his final decision . global news has agreed to change alari ’ s name because of fears she could be harmed if her appeal is denied and she is returned to nigeria . guidelines must be consideredthe irb cannot tell judges how to decide cases , even when the facts of two claims are nearly identical , because that would interfere with their judicial independence . the board can , however , require judges to consider specific sets of guidelines when assessing evidence and writing their final decisions . if judges deviate from these guidelines , they have to provide a reasonable explanation why . for cases that involve women who allege gender - based violence , such as alari , the board ’ s gender guidelines say judges should consider the effect trauma has on a woman ’ s ability to testify . the guidelines also say cases involving sexual violence “ may require extremely sensitive handling ” because of the psychological and emotional trauma victims of rape and domestic violence often experience . story continues below advertisement1 : 12 lawyer says refugee judge violated guidelines in a ‘shocking ’ way lawyer says refugee judge violated guidelines in a ‘shocking ’ wayin alari ’ s appeal to the irb , joundi said rozenszajn ’ s decision didn ’ t meet these requirements . she also said his “ inexplicable ” line of questioning about why alari ’ s husband wouldn ’ t “ just kill ” her breached the board ’ s guidelines by forcing alari to speculate about the mindset of her alleged abuser , and because it showed a “ complete lack of understanding ” about the basic facts of domestic abuse and its cyclical nature . alari , meanwhile , says rozenszajn ’ s questions made her feel worthless . “ how can a fellow human being look at me and ask me that , why are you not dead ? ” tweet thisalari ’ s claim rejectedin his written decision , rozenszajn said he rejected alari ’ s claim because she was untrustworthy and because she didn ’ t provide credible testimony or documentary evidence . story continues below advertisementhe made these findings , in part , because he said alari submitted fraudulent and fabricated medical records from a private hospital in nigeria — although his decision contains no indication that he tried to authenticate the documents himself , despite having the hospital ’ s phone number . 2 : 31 the rising rhetoric around refugees is fuelling many falsehoods about whether these new arrivals pose a threat the rising rhetoric around refugees is fuelling many falsehoods about whether these new arrivals pose a threatthe federal court has said irb judges should take steps to verify documents they suspect could be fraudulent if contact information is available , and that decisions can be overturned when this is not done . “ the [irb] may feel that it has no obligation to make simple checks even when lives are at stake . i hope not , ” wrote justice james russell in a 2018 decision . read more : canada blocks teen from reuniting with family despite taliban death threatsrozenszajn also said alari misrepresented her medical history and omitted important information about her husband ’ s profession and his ability to find her in nigeria if she fled . he said this was critical to her case and that it negatively affected her overall credibility . story continues below advertisementthe irb considers refugee claims private and typically does not disclose information about specific cases . the board did , however , respond to a request about alari ’ s claim that rozenszajn ’ s questions breached irb guidelines — though it did not acknowledge if these questions were inappropriate . “ in this case , irb management has spoken with the member . he understands that his question to the claimant was construed as being insensitive , and he is undertaking further training , ” said irb spokesperson line - alice guibert - wolff . guidelines are effectivequeen ’ s university law professor sharry aiken says the irb ’ s guidelines , when applied properly , are extremely effective at helping judges decide cases fairly and protecting the most vulnerable refugee claimants . while she can ’ t comment on alari ’ s case specifically , she says judges who improperly apply the guidelines or the law remain “ hugely concerning ” for refugee advocates in canada . but this doesn ’ t mean the guidelines are broken . in fact , aiken says refugee decision - makers around the world envy the guidelines because of their clear framework for how to deal with the most challenging and complicated cases . what it does mean , she said , is that despite the board ’ s significant efforts to improve its hiring policies and to overhaul its training procedures , there remain ineffective judges at the irb who lack the competency needed to properly apply the law or the guidelines . story continues below advertisement2 : 21 asylum agreement between u . s . and canada challenged in federal court asylum agreement between u . s . and canada challenged in federal courtit ’ s these judges , aiken said — the ones who consistently make the same errors — that should concern the irb and whose performance should be watched closely . “ it ’ s more an issue of decision - makers who are doing a poor job and could probably be rebuked for a whole range of reasons , ” aiken said . “ not least of which is their inability to properly apply the guidelines . ” read more : saddam hussein cabinet minister made refugee claim so canada could pay for dialysis treatmentsbut guibert - wolff says there “ should be no doubt about the competence or professionalism of irb decision - makers . ” she says new judges are evaluated throughout their initial training period and are then monitored by their supervisors . the board also conducts “ post - training mentoring exercises , ” which include reviewing complaints it receives about judges and decisions that are overturned by either the irb ’ s appeal division or the federal court . story continues below advertisementirb ‘creates trauma ’ a 2018 global news investigation revealed allegations of serious misconduct at the irb , including claims of “ incompetence ” and “ aggressive ” behaviour made against two former refugee judges . in response to these claims , parliament launched a review of how the board handles formal complaints made against its own members . paul aterman , then - head of the irb , told mps that the board takes allegations of wrongdoing seriously , that it monitors judges ’ decisions , and that they receive extensive training on how to follow the board ’ s rules and guidelines . the irb also revamped its complaint process , promising to make it more transparent and to continue investigating complaints even after judges leave their positions . but preevanda sapru , a toronto immigration lawyer who specializes in gender - based cases at the irb , says these measures are often ineffective and that the board “ systemically creates trauma ” for the most vulnerable claimants by ignoring its own rules , procedures and guidelines . 3 : 34 family living in canada for more than 6 years to be deported christmas eve family living in canada for more than 6 years to be deported christmas eveshe recalls the case of a hungarian client whose husband allegedly beat her , locked her in an apartment and forced her to have sex with men for money over a period of several years . story continues below advertisementafter coming to canada and making a refugee claim with her husband — because she said that was the only way he would allow her to leave hungary with her children — the woman left him and then applied to separate their cases at the irb . the board denied this application twice , however , before finally agreeing , sapru said . the woman then submitted four separate applications under the board ’ s vulnerable person guidelines to get permission to testify with the help of a “ designated representative . ” sapru says the woman found it difficult to speak about her past experiences due to the severe trauma she endured . 2 : 20 family set to be deported on christmas eve has been granted stay in canada family set to be deported on christmas eve has been granted stay in canadabut judges at the irb rejected these applications despite sapru having submitted , as the board ’ s guidelines recommend , psychological and psychiatric reports that concluded the woman was too traumatized to testify . story continues below advertisementthe judges made their decisions , in part , because they said the woman did not lack the intellectual or mental capacity to testify . and while the irb did assign a female judge to the case and allowed someone into the hearing room to comfort her , it wasn ’ t until the presiding judge saw the claimant in person and realized she was incapable of testifying that a designated representative was assigned . sapru says all of this could have been avoided , however , if the board followed its own guidelines . other lawyers who spoke with global news say it ’ s routine for decision - makers to approve accommodations without an application . this usually happens in an informal manner , they say , with judges agreeing to specific requests on the day of a hearing . but sapru says this process was insufficient for her client because of the severe trauma she endured . that ’ s why she submitted her request in advance , as the guidelines suggest . quantifying problematic decision - makingstatistics obtained by global news show there is significant variation in approval rates for vulnerable person applications across the country . story continues below advertisementover the past three years , judges at the irb ’ s toronto office rejected 63 per cent of the vulnerable person applications they received , while the board ’ s montreal office rejected 22 per cent of applications . in vancouver , just six per cent of applications were rejected . sean rehaag , director of york university ’ s centre for refugee studies , says the “ stark difference ” in acceptance rates raises concerns about unequal treatment for the most vulnerable refugee claimants . “ if the differences are attributable to varying decision - making practices across canada , then there is a serious fairness problem , ” he said . 2 : 04 cbsa cancels arrest warrants for people it can ’ t find cbsa cancels arrest warrants for people it can ’ t findrehaag has spent more than a decade collecting data on decisions made at all levels of canada ’ s refugee determination process . story continues below advertisementhis work has revealed “ massive variation ” in acceptance rates for individual judges at the irb , its appeals division , and the federal court . read more : family living in canada for six years set to be deported on christmas evein 2018 , for example , acceptance rates for individual judges at the irb ’ s refugee protection division ranged between 95 per cent of the cases they heard at the high end and 10 per cent of the cases they heard at the low end . this extreme variation between judges , rehaag said , leads to questions about whether refugee claims in canada are decided based on law and facts or are instead decided by the “ luck of the draw . ” in response to these concerns , the irb says it “ strives to achieve consistency ” in decision - making , but adds that individual cases are decided based on their merits and the evidence presented . the board also says asylum seekers have a right to present their claims “ as they see fit , ” which can affect the outcome of a case . a ‘check the box ’ approach to guidelinesrehaag says it ’ s not uncommon for refugee judges to take a “ check the box ” approach when applying the board ’ s guidelines to their written decisions . story continues below advertisementthis means judges acknowledge the guidelines exist , often mentioning them by name in their rulings , but then fail to explain why they do not apply to a specific case . read more : family set to be deported christmas eve will be allowed to staywhile he did not comment on alari ’ s case specifically , rehaag says some refugee judges use this approach as a way of appeal proofing decisions — meaning that because the guidelines are mentioned , their rulings are more difficult to overturn on the grounds that the guidelines were not considered . according to the federal court , an example of the guidelines being mentioned but not properly applied is the irb appeal decision in the case of vincent mckenzie , a gay pastor from jamaica . 1 : 49 ex - minister under hussein made refugee claim in canada ex - minister under hussein made refugee claim in canadafearing he could be hurt , even killed , for being gay , mckenzie kept his sexual orientation a secret from nearly everyone he knew , including his family . story continues below advertisementso when a judge at the irb denied his refugee claim because he couldn ’ t prove he was gay — the judge said he was “ not an lgbt person ” — mckenzie said he felt helpless . “ you live every day with the fear that you ’ re going to die , ” mckenzie said . “ you ’ re constantly told being gay is an abomination . ” but the irb anticipates some people , such as mckenzie , may find it difficult to prove their sexual orientation and has directed judges in cases that involve lgbtq2 claimants to consider its sexual orientation and gender identity and expression ( sogie ) guidelines . when reviewing mckenzie ’ s case , however , federal court justice e . susan elliot said the irb appeals judge did not properly apply these guidelines because he failed to consider mckenzie ’ s claim that he came from “ an extremely homophobic country ” and that it was reasonable he couldn ’ t provide hard evidence in support of some aspects of his case . elliot also said the judge gave no explanation why he didn ’ t believe mckenzie ’ s story and why he decided to deviate from the guidelines . saying it was “ unreasonable ” and “ unintelligible , ” elliot overturned the irb appeal decision . the irb , meanwhile , denies the claim that judges take a “ check the box ” approach to the guidelines , adding that the board is committed to ensuring they are “ properly and rigorously applied . ” story continues below advertisementthe board also said it is currently reviewing the sogie guidelines , while seeking ways to strengthen its policies around appointing designated representatives to better help the most vulnerable refugee claimants . challenges assessing credibilitywhether a claimant is believable or not is the deciding factor in almost all refugee claims in canada , said mckenzie ’ s lawyer adrienne smith . there is , however , a legal presumption that claimants are telling the truth unless there ’ s a good reason to disbelieve them . judges make “ credibility findings ” based on a range of factors : such as whether a claimant ’ s testimony appears trustworthy , the quality of any documentary evidence submitted , and because of a lack of corroborating evidence in situations where a judge thinks hard evidence should exist . 0 : 53 law professor explains why judges are supposed to presume asylum seekers are telling the truth law professor explains why judges are supposed to presume asylum seekers are telling the truthbut the board ’ s sogie guidelines give judges leeway when considering these factors . the guidelines also help judges make decisions in difficult cases , even where there ’ s no corroborating evidence . story continues below advertisementmaurice tomlinson , a toronto immigration lawyer who has spent much of the past decade giving sensitivity training to police and challenging anti - gay laws in the caribbean , says the board ’ s guidelines are critical for making sure lgbtq2 claimants are not disadvantaged in their efforts to seek refugee status in canada . while he acknowledges that assessing credibility is challenging , he says the persecution people throughout the caribbean face due to their sexual identity is “ pervasive . ” he says this extends to police forces in countries such as jamaica and antigua where many officers are still unwilling to help lgbtq2 people in need of protection because they are “ intrinsically homophobic . ” “ acts of murder and abuse against lgbt people in the caribbean are legendary , ” tomlinson said . 2 : 05 lawyer and gay - rights advocate says homophobia is ‘pervasive ’ in caribbean lawyer and gay - rights advocate says homophobia is ‘pervasive ’ in caribbeansimilar principles to help judges assess evidence under difficult circumstances are contained in the board ’ s gender - guidelines . story continues below advertisementwhile judges are allowed to reject claims based on allegations of sexual assault or domestic violence , they are encouraged to recognize that women who make these claims often face unique challenges when trying to prove their cases . the guidelines say judges should be familiar with rape trauma syndrome and battered woman syndrome — both of which can significantly affect a woman ’ s ability to testify . toronto psychiatrist dr . michaela beder , who routinely works with refugee claimants , says trauma , including sexual assault and domestic abuse , can affect a woman ’ s memory and her ability to recount past experiences in a linear way . black - outs , forgetting important details such as dates , and subconsciously putting walls around certain memories as a way of avoiding pain are some of the more common symptoms associated with severe abuse and post - traumatic stress disorde , she says . and while rozenszajn ’ s decision says he considered the gender - guidelines when assessing alari ’ s case , joundi says his ruling was incorrect because it gave only “ boilerplate ” attention to the guidelines and did not explain why he decided to deviate from them . she also says his decision did not consider the effect prolonged trauma had on alari ’ s emotional well - being , and that her mental health condition changed once she came to canada and the alleged threat from her husband no longer existed . story continues below advertisement “ his role was to ask her questions , yes , but also to handle her case and the hearing in an extremely sensitive way , ” joundi said . “ that ’ s what the guidelines say . ” 
__label__relevant windsor man convicted of keeping his wife as a sex slave article contenta windsor man found guilty of sexual assault and extortion used the threat of deportation to pressure his wife into performing sexual acts , a judge ruled friday . the man , who cannot be named to protect the identity of his wife , abused his position of power during his nine - week marriage , superior court justice paul howard said before delivering his judgment in a windsor courtroom . we apologize , but this video has failed to load . tap here to see other videos from our team . try refreshing your browser , or windsor man convicted of keeping his wife as a sex slave back to videoon numerous occasions , the man made calls to cancel his sponsorship application for his wife ’ s immigration to canada , only to reinstate the application once she did what he told her to , howard said during his summary of the six - day september trial . a failed refugee claimant from nigeria , the woman sought asylum in canada in 2013 in an attempt to protect her daughter from a female genital mutilation ceremony that required the mother to be present , court heard . in 2015 , while living in brampton , she met the man through the online dating site plenty of fish . less than a week after their first face - to - face encounter , she moved into his windsor home , and married him within the month . 
