__label__relevant preble county common pleas hears drug , domestic violence cases eaton — preble county common pleas court heard cases involving drugs , theft and domestic violence the week of monday , july 13 . judge stephen r . bruns presided . gary wayne davidson , 35 , of camden , was sentenced on charges of attempt as it relates to domestic violence on tuesday , july 14 . according to court documents , police were called to davidson ’ s home in camden in march 2017 , at which point the alleged victim in the case claimed that davidson had “ head - butted her ” and kicked her in the knee . a warrant was later issued for the defendant ’ s arrest after he failed to appear in court “ for a significant period of time . ” a state sentencing memorandum filed by the preble county prosecutor ’ s office recommended 12 months of incarceration in the case , citing davidson ’ s two previous convictions for domestic violence . attorney kevin lennen spoke in his client ’ s defense , however , claiming that davidson ’ s “ volatile relationship ” with the victim had contributed to his conduct , but that he had since “ moved on . ” judge bruns sentenced davidson to three years of community control . davidson was also ordered to pay court costs , attend anger management classes , and perform 100 hours of community service . a prison term of 18 months could be imposed if davidson fails to complete the terms of his probation . davidson asked to be allowed to pay a fine in place of the community service requirement , but the judge denied his request . tyler m . wyatt , 23 , of camden , was sentenced on charges of violating a protection order . additional counts of criminal damaging or endangering and possession of marijuana were dismissed . according to court documents , wyatt was captured on video throwing a rock through the window of the alleged victim in the case , as well as driving by the victim ’ s house on multiple occasions and shouting obscenities . a state sentencing memorandum filed by the prosecution recommended substance abuse treatment in a community - based correctional facility , stating that wyatt ’ s drug problem “ exacerbated his obsession with the victim ” and that he “ will need resources greater than outpatient treatment can offer in order to live a sober lifestyle . ” attorney john cunningham spoke in his client ’ s defense , saying that wyatt was “ young enough and smart enough to get a job and not be on the bill of the county anymore . ” judge bruns disagreed , however , citing wyatt ’ s previous failure to complete court - ordered substance abuse treatment . bruns sentenced wyatt to serve 252 days in the preble county jail , with credit for 192 days already served . wyatt was also ordered to pay court costs , and his community control in two previous cases was ordered to be unsuccessfully terminated . randal w . flory , 47 , of lewisburg , was sentenced on charges of aggravated possession of drugs . both the defendant and his attorney claimed that flory had been self - medicating to manage pain from a pair of back and neck injuries , but was currently employed , in treatment , and had family to support him . “ i was substituting one drug for another , ” flory admitted . judge bruns sentenced flory to three years of community control , and also ordered the defendant to participate in a sober living program . dustin b . brock , 42 , of west alexandria , was sentenced on charges of tampering with evidence . additional charges of possession of drug abuse instruments , illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia , and possession of heroin were dismissed . brock ’ s attorney , john cunningham , claimed his client was currently sober , employed and attending classes and aa meetings . “ the past seven months have been great . it ’ s been a blessing , ” brock told the court before sentence was handed down . “ i wish i ’ d have done all this sooner . ” judge bruns had reservations , however . “ when i look at your record , i see a lot of ups and downs , ” bruns said . “ but i want to commend you for where you are right now , and i want to encourage that . ” bruns sentenced the defendant to three years of community control . brian z . abrams , 36 , appeared for a competency hearing . abrams stands accused on charges of aggravated possession of drugs . both the defense and prosecution stipulated that abrams had been found incompetent to stand trial , but restorable within the time period allowed by law . bruns ordered abrams transferred to the summit behavioral healthcare to undergo further mental health treatment . also on tuesday : daniel r . salyers , 31 , of eaton , was scheduled to appear for a change of plea hearing on charges of burglary . a warrant for salyers ’ arrest was issued after he failed to appear . charles w . hawn , 44 , of chillicothe , was scheduled to appear on charges of aggravated possession of drugs and theft from a person in a protected class . a warrant for hawn ’ s arrest was issued after he also failed to appear . stacey a . denham , 39 , of brookville , entered a plea of deny to accusations of community control violation on underlying charges of obstructing official business , identity fraud , and aggravated possession of drugs . her next court appearance is a pre - trial conference , to be held sept . 17 . misti d . adamson , 30 , of eaton , pleaded guilty to attempted burglary and theft from a person in a protected class . her next court date is a sentencing hearing , to be held aug . 5 . donald a . buttery , 41 , of oxford , failed to appear on charges of possession of a fentanyl - related compound . buttery ’ s attorney , kirsten knight , claimed that her client was currently hospitalized after testing positive , along with family members , for covid - 19 , resulting in his hearing being indefinitely postponed . on wednesday : richard e . marshall , 56 , was sentenced on charges of aggravated possession of drugs . marshall ’ s attorney asked that he be allowed to remain free pending enrollment in a substance abuse treatment program , citing the enormous out - of - pocket cost of inpatient treatment and the fact that marshall ’ s employer - sponsored health insurance was due to kick in at the beginning of august . judge bruns ordered the defendant taken into custody pending admission to a community - based correctional treatment facility , however . bruns also sentenced marshall to three years of community control . finally , jared farah , 24 , of new castle , pennsylvania , appeared for sentencing on charges of possession of marijuana , trafficking in marijuana , and possessing criminal tools . according to court documents , farah and another defendant were pulled over by ohio state highway patrol troopers on interstate 70 in preble county in dec . 2019 . a search of their vehicle revealed “ large amounts of marijuana packaged for trade . ” “ the sheer volume and diversity of marijuana and marijuana products [found in the vehicle] is remarkable , ” a sentencing memorandum filed by the preble county prosecuting attorney ’ s office reads . prosecutors recommended six months of incarceration in the case , followed by community control . judge bruns stated he was unable to proceed with sentencing because farah had failed to cooperate with a pre - sentencing investigation , however . bruns ordered farah taken into custody pending completion of that investigation . wyatt https : / / www . registerherald . com / wp - content / uploads / sites / 41 / 2020 / 07 / web1_ - tyler - m . - wyatt - 1 - 1 . jpg wyatt abrams https : / / www . registerherald . com / wp - content / uploads / sites / 41 / 2020 / 07 / web1_brian - abrams . jpg abrams flory https : / / www . registerherald . com / wp - content / uploads / sites / 41 / 2020 / 07 / web1_randall - flory . jpg floryby anthony baker abaker@aimmediamidwest . comreach anthony baker at 937 - 683 - 4057 or on facebook @improperenglishreach anthony baker at 937 - 683 - 4057 or on facebook @improperenglish
__label__relevant clare ' s law campaigner michael brown who fought for domestic violence reform in honour of murdered daughter dies aged 76 michael brown with a photograph of daughter clare woodmichael brown , 76 , was the father of clare wood , who was murdered by an abusive ex - partner who she did not know had a history of violence towards women . after her murder in 2009 mr brown , from south elmsall , campaigned for a change to the law that would allow people to access potentially lifesaving informational about a partner if alarm bells were raised . the domestic violence disclosure scheme ( dvds ) – better known as clare ’ s law – came into force in england and wales in march 2014 . mr brown , who previously lived in batley , died in hospital in sheffield on saturday night following a short illness . mr brown ’ s sister , carol whicher , said : “ michael never stopped fighting after he lost his daughter clare in such horrific circumstances . “ he didn ’ t want anyone else to suffer the same fate she did and always said if he could save just one person from a life of domestic abuse then his campaigning had been worth it . ” earlier this year , mr brown , from received a british citizenship award . clare ’ s law also came into effect in scotland in 2016 and northern ireland in 2018 . it is being trialled in australia , australia and canada . mr brown continued to fight for the scheme to used to its full potential in the years after it was established . he called for more requests to be granted and campaigned for the length of time authorities have to respond to requests to be reduced . mother - of - one miss wood , 36 , was murdered by her ex - boyfriend , george appleton , in 2009 . 
__label__relevant domestic violence on the rise during pandemic almost one in 10 australian women in a relationship have experienced domestic violence during the coronavirus crisis , with two - thirds saying the attacks started or became worse during the pandemic . a survey by the australian institute of criminology also reveals more than half of women who had experienced physical or sexual violence before the covid - 19 crisis said the violence had become more frequent or severe since the start of the pandemic . the research shows 4 . 6 per cent of all women experienced physical or sexual violence from a current or former cohabiting partner between february and may . the morrison government will on monday announce a $3 million package to provide more counselling and support services for women and their children who have experienced family violence . the aic research shows 4 . 6 per cent of all women – and 8 . 8 per cent of women in a relationship – experienced physical or sexual violence from a current or former cohabiting partner between february and may . 
__label__relevant cut the stigma attached to domestic abuse , writes sam billingham domestic abuse is an epidemic that has devastating impacts , affecting one in four women and one in six men and two women in england and wales are killed by a partner or former partner . the onus is always put on the victim with the most common question being , why didn ’ t you just leave . this very question implies that domestic abuse “ isn ’ t that bad ” , it minimises the abuse and violence that the victim endures every day yet it also justifies the perpetrators actions . stigma , where domestic abuse is concerned , is dangerous . unfortunately , we are still at the stage in society where people believe that domestic abuse is about a perpetrator being angry , they shout and slap their partner and that ’ s that – which is why people often say , if my partner ever hit me i would just leave . domestic abuse is about power and control ; control starts long before ( if at all ) the physical abuse . when we focus on physical abuse we take our eye off the bigger picture of what domestic abuse actually is . isolation is a key ingredient in any abusive relationship , it can often happen at the honeymoon period of the relationship when everything is new and exciting , where the perpetrator persuades their partner not to see their family or friends that night and before long , that night has turned into months . the control has taken them away from their support network . there are so many different tactics that a perpetrator uses against their partner and they don ’ t always include physical abuse . gas lighting is a tactic in which a person or entity , in order to gain more power , makes a victim question their realityadvertising * they tell blatant lies * they deny what they have said / done * they use what is dear to you as ammunition * they wear you downadvertising * their actions do not match their wordsstonewalling is a persistent refusal to communicate or to express emotions . the silent treatment , also known as stonewalling , is when a " listener withdraws from an interaction , refusing to participate or engage , essentially becoming unresponsive " . it ’ s used to control and punish . many victims of domestic abuse don ’ t know they are a victim until it ’ s too late because they don ’ t always recognise the signs that aren ’ t there . some victims often say , i ’ m not being abused because i ’ m not physically hurt . domestic violence is a pattern of behaviour in which one exerts power and control over another individual ; it is not about losing control but being in control . a perpetrator will mould and manipulate their partner into someone they can easily control , from what they wear to who they speak to . it is everyone ’ s duty to learn about the cycle of domestic abuse and what the early warning signs are , that ’ s the best way we can support any victim of domestic abuse . for support visit www . sodahq . uk
__label__relevant new domestic violence emergency service is launching in arizona close get email notifications on {{subject}} daily ! your notification has been saved . there was a problem saving your notification . {{description}}email notifications are only sent once a day , and only if there are new matching items . 
__label__relevant  ' remember children living with domestic violence ’ most people would agree domestic violence is a blight on society generally and directly on people and families affected by it . as a 30 - year veteran of law enforce - ment in richmond , i have responded to countless domestic disturbance calls and seen firsthand the physical and emotional devastation caused when abuse is present in homes and how it destabilizes already fragile family structures . i can also speak from personal experience . i grew up in a home where spousal abuse occurred , where nights were filled with yelling and screaming and me trying to keep my dad away from my mom . on many occasions , things were so bad i called the police to intervene . the abuse continued , and in 1980 my father shot and killed my mother , a crime for which he was incarcerated . as painful as the loss of both of my parents was , what followed was also jarring – the five gunshots made my younger sister and me orphans fending for ourselves . those life experiences led me to a career in law enforcement , first with the richmond sheriff ’ s office , and for the last 23 years with the richmond police department . they also led me in 2014 to form the carol adams foundation , a nonprofit organization whosemission is to provide emergency assistance to women , men and children who are victims of domestic violence . the foundation offers safety net services and other resources — groceries , clothes , furniture , etc . — to support victims of domestic violence so they can re - establish a life that is violence - free and give themselves an opportunity to become self - sufficient . as a police officer and a domestic vio - lence survivor , i know the need for support services and programs that surround children from fractured families with a safe , nurturing environment . but there are barriers to accessing and qualifying for available services or gaining the trust of an abuse victim . when people who are traumatized daily by the loud noises , yelling and screaming associated with domestic violence call the police , they are looking for a knight in shining armor . they sometimes are disappointed when they don ’ t get the result they expect . over time , it became clear to me that my purpose was to help teach my fellow officers about the kindness and caring needed to help people on the other side of things because that ’ s where i ’ m from . life experience in the police department thrust me into this work of forming a foundation and getting into my purpose . this rewarding work gives me a chance to share my story with survivors to let them know they aren ’ t alone , that this happens to many families even if they don ’ t realize it . i share these thoughts as june ’ s gun violence awareness month ends . in july , new gun control laws passed by the virginia general assembly take effect . it is my hope those measures help reduce gun violence because i know that the slightest pull of the trigger can take a life and impact so many other people . when guns are in an unstable home , perhaps where substance abuse or mental health challenges are present , it significantly heightens the potential that serious violence will occur . these are important steps in the march for progress . they are not the only steps , however . we find ourselves at a moment in our nation ’ s history when many old , unhealed wounds are resurfacing , when issues many have been blind to have been brought into stark relief . we have a homeless epidemic we don ’ t talk about . we have legacy , systemic inequalities affecting people of color , their health outcomes and their everyday lives . the covid - 19 pandemic has only deepened those challenges for people on the margins of society , especially people in families where domestic violence is present and for whom the pandemic shutdown may pour gas on an already combustible situation . as we work for a more just world , let ’ s remember children living with domestic violence for whom each day is about survival even as another emotionally burdensome rock is added to the bag on their back . carol adamsrichmondthe writer is a 30 - year law enforcement officer in richmond and founder of the carol adams foundation . 
__label__relevant coronavirus in vietnam claims zero lives but boosts domestic violence in vietnam , the peace house hotline and the sunshine hotline are two organizations that take calls from those seeking help in cases of violence against women or children . in recent months , the number of calls has skyrocketed — twice the volume as at the same time last year — and signs point to the coronavirus pandemic as part of the reason . by other measures , vietnam did a stellar job of fighting the disease . it is the most populous nation to suffer zero covid - 19 deaths despite its border with china . that did not spare the southeast asian nation from the other repercussions of the pandemic , however , including an increase in domestic violence . it is a trend seen around the world , with many nations reporting higher rates of domestic violence amid pandemic - induced lockdowns . as elsewhere , stakeholders in vietnam say that as the lockdown forced more people to stay home from work or school , they faced a higher risk of violence , sexual abuse or other exploitation in the home . violence in lockdownthe higher risk stems not just from the fact that potential victims are at home more of the time , but also from the fact that they are not at the office , school , or other places where people could spot signs of abuse and get them help . file - primary school students wearing protective masks attend their first day of class after the government eased a nationwide lockdown during the coronavirus disease outbreak in ho chi minh city , vietnam , may 11 , 2020 . “ evidence shows that during crises and disasters , family and gender - based violence increases , ” said robyn mudie , the australian ambassador to vietnam . “ during the covid - 19 pandemic , job losses and enforced home isolation have caused rates of violence against women and children to soar in countries around the world . ” australia donated $1 . 7 million in june to a campaign to end violence against women and children in vietnam , saying the goal is one of the priorities for overall recovery from the pandemic . groceries , hotelsthe campaign includes offering help to survivors of violence , and working with supermarkets , pharmacies and hotels , which for instance , can help by giving food , medicine , or housing to survivors . the project also involves raising awareness about the problem . awareness can involve members of the public who disagree on what may constitute sexual abuse or marital rape , for example . among local students , 58% believe teachers would not commit sexual abuse and 59% believe their homes are safe from the threat , according to a 2019 study in the international journal of environmental research and public health . awareness also can involve public servants . the chair of the vietnam women ' s union , nguyen thi thu ha , said when asked about services for children , local governments are more likely to refer to amusement parks rather than social services or access to therapy . her union , which is under the umbrella of the communist party of vietnam , is part of the anti - violence campaign . #metooa public service announcement tells ho chi minh city residents that sexual abuse of women and children is a serious crime . as the #metoo movement against sexual abuse spread around the globe , vietnam tended to focus more on abuse of children than women . last year , though , a string of abuse cases galvanized public opinion , including a man fined $8 after forcibly kissing a woman in an elevator . as for violence at home , it is possible the rate will decrease now that vietnam has emerged from the coronavirus lockdown . overcoming these and related issues contributes to the country ’ s sustainable development goals , a united nations initiative that includes gender equality , according to the u . n . population fund . “ there is no way for vietnam to achieve the 2030 sustainable development goals without addressing the issue of violence against women and children , ” the fund representative in vietnam , naomi kitahara , said , speaking also on behalf of the u . n . children ' s fund ( unicef ) and u . n . women . “ it is about making sure that everyone is part of the country ’ s sustainable development process , leaving no one behind . ” 
__label__relevant covid - 19 is making things harder for victims of domestic abuse . here ' s a way to help . people in abusive relationships have always had a nightmarish time navigating their way to get help . covid - 19 has only made it harder . emergency shelters at least offered a temporary roof over the heads of parents and young children fleeing abuse . and before lockdown , victims could still secretly confide what was going on at home during in - office appointments with pediatricians and primary care doctors . then the pandemic pretty much shut down those outlets . during the height of the lockdown in the united states , shelters were turning people away in droves , and with nowhere to go and fewer ways to report abuse safely , victims stopped communicating through the usual channels . it led to a sharp plummet in the number of reported cases . in fact , northeastern ’ s domestic violence clinic , which serves victims in the immediate boston area , saw a 66 percent drop between the spring of 2019 and 2020 . taking the numbers at face value , the sharp decline suggested that the pandemic was improving people ’ s lives at home . but it wasn ’ t ; it was making things worse . and margo lindauer knew it . “ in times of crisis , whatever crisis that is , domestic violence goes up , ” says lindauer , an associate clinical professor of law and director of the domestic violence institute at northeastern . “ with covid , everyone was seeing rates going down , and we knew that wasn ’ t indicative of what was actually going on , ” lindauer says . what was taking place behind the scenes , lindauer and others at the clinic found , was that victims were stuck at home in the same four walls as their abusers and couldn ’ t leave . worse , they had no way of contacting the clinic , which is often alerted to abuse situations through social service community organizations and the court . so lindauer had an idea—northeastern would bring the clinic to clients . working in tandem with the nulawlab innovation hub , they pondered a new way forward that plays on northeastern ’ s strength as a social justice law school . what they came up with is the covid rapid response project , a two - stage effort involving a website where users fill out a few forms and choose a convenient and secure time to talk or text . then , the individual is routed to a newly created app that is going to be a safer way to communicate with clients . the app , which goes live july 1 , lets victims safely and securely document instances of abuse . for privacy , the app will be hidden on the victim ’ s phone . “ i believe that this technology is something that can be replicated on a much bigger scale , ” predicts lindauer . “ if this technology is effective , which i have every reason to believe it will be , this is something we can use across massachusetts and across the country , really , in connecting folks to legal assistance . ” the technology is phase one of the project . finding safer emergency housing is the next phase . and the most challenging . under the best of circumstances , it can be hard to find a vacancy at a domestic violence shelter . now , shelters cannot make space for new arrivals because of distancing concerns . not to be deterred , the clinic is in talks with several hotels in boston that have a relationship with the university in the hope of finding room for victims . “ i always say that more safe , affordable housing is something that as a community we need to expand , ” lindauer says . but it ’ s an expensive proposition because of the high costs of hiring security . a fundraising effort is currently underway with the goal of $100 , 000 . it has managed to raise about $80 , 000 , largely through former students and other supporters who worked at the clinic in their upper level of law school . one of those students is morgan wilson , who now runs the legal assistance to victims program , a unique endeavor that allows first years an opportunity to do community outreach , provide information on social and therapeutic services , know - your - rights training , and other holistic legal work . “ we look at clients in the fullness of their humanity , ” says wilson , a former political appointee in the department of justice in the obama administration . “ northeastern recognized it ’ s not about servicing one small piece of a client ’ s needs . there are other needs that have to be supported . ” and with those needs comes the realization of just how tough life is for some people . the pandemic has , in a positive way , made society take a good look at the struggles certain members of the community have to endure , says lindauer . “ it has forced a conversation on many different levels about how people living in poverty—specifically black and brown individuals–don ’ t have the same access to institutions and assistance as those with means do , ” she says . “ and that ’ s a good conversation to have . ” for media inquiries , please contact media@northeastern . edu . 
__label__relevant domestic violence during covid - 19 : are we asking the right questions ? domestic violence during covid - 19 : are we asking the right questions ? 2020 - 06 - 26the number of domestic violence cases reported to the south african police between march and april dropped by 69 . 4% . this figure makes it tempting to believe that in south africa , unlike many other countries , lockdown in response to the covid - 19 pandemic reduced family and domestic violence . however police statistics , call numbers to hotlines and counts of women accessing services during lockdown tell us little about the number of women and families actually experiencing violence at the hands of men . many countries have documented an increase in reported cases of violence against women and children under lockdown . this may be because of the high levels of anxiety and tension in households where people are living together in close proximity . unemployment , hunger , isolation and uncertainty also probably play a role . these are stresses that many , if not most , south african families experience . police statistics of reported cases and the number of calls to hotlines or non - governmental organisations are not sources of information on the extent of violence experienced by women . but they can tell us who was accessing services and reporting cases , and they raise important questions about whether it was possible for women to access services under lockdown . studies on the impact of pandemics on levels of violence against women and children are scarcewhat data should we be using to understand levels of violence against women during covid - 19 ? and what does the reduction in reporting in south africa tell us about the nature of abuse , and women ’ s trust in the systems intended to support them ? it isn ’ t surprising that the police , ngos and shelters reported a drop in cases during lockdown . could women confined with their abusers find a safe time , a private space , and means to make contact ? did they trust support systems enough to believe they would get help if they risked asking ? did they know who to contact ? and in the face of highly publicised abuse by some security force members , could women risk trying to access shelters or courts ? it is important to understand the impact of lockdown and the alcohol ban on levels of violence in our homes . but the available information , i . e . service level data , cannot demonstrate these trends . that being the case , can usable and actionable statistics on domestic violence during the pandemic be collected ethically and safely ? rigorous studies on the impact of pandemics on levels of violence against women and children are scarce . it ’ s difficult to ensure the safety of women who are asked to respond to questions about their experiences of abuse , so the accuracy of the information gathered is likely to be questionable . can usable statistics on domestic violence during the pandemic be collected ethically and safely ? social distancing and lockdown limit our ability to conduct face - to - face interviews and do research according to accepted ethical standards . this applies particularly to keeping respondents safe and their answers confidential during data collection . and while reliable information during a pandemic is important , international organisations agree that the priority must be to ensure that survivors have access to good - quality support and services . data about the scale of violence against women and children can most reliably be captured through large national specialised surveys that use standard measures and highly trained enumerators . these include the world health organization multi - country study on women ’ s health and domestic violence against women , the united nations multi - country study on men and violence in asia and the pacific , and the violence against children surveys . administrative or service data ( e . g . from police , justice , or health and social services ) are poor measures of domestic violence levels . this violence is largely under - reported and many survivors don ’ t seek help . when they do , cases may not always be properly recorded . what can be done to ensure women aren ’ t cut off from services when social distancing is required ? the research is clear about the factors that drive intimate partner violence . these include gender inequality , childhood emotional abuse and neglect , frequent arguing with a partner , depression , and gender norms that support men ’ s use of violence . the image below shows findings from the un multi - country study on men and violence in asia and the pacific . it aimed to generate knowledge about the factors that contribute to men ’ s perpetration of intimate partner violence against women . the circle sizes indicate the relative impact of each factor . the larger the circle the greater contribution the factor has on levels of intimate partner violence . the colours indicate thematic groups . this is a clear visual representation of how complex the drivers and risk factors of intimate partner violence are . relative importance of factors explaining intimate partner violence ( click on the graphic for the full size image ) ( click on the graphic for the full size image ) south african research also points to the significant role that alcohol and drugs , gender norms and beliefs about the roles of women in society , and childhood trauma play in increasing the likelihood that men will perpetrate violence against women . the important questions to ask during this pandemic are not whether the violence has increased or decreased ( which we cannot answer ) . we should rather be asking about the impact of the virus and social distancing measures on women and children , and whether they ’ ve been able to access services . this question is best answered by those working with women and children on the frontline . we also need to learn from others elsewhere , and build a global set of measures to inform current responses to and future management of pandemics . what we know suggests that social distancing regulations and lockdowns are unlikely to reduce violence in the home . as we emerge from the covid - 19 crisis , it will be important to undertake research to better understand how women and families experienced the lockdown and what informed the reduction in reporting . meanwhile the department of social development and national treasury should ensure that high - quality services are available to victims of domestic violence , and that preventive services aren ’ t compromised by the shift in state spending to address the pandemic . finally , we need to be asking what can be done to ensure that women are not cut off from services when social distancing is required . elizabeth dartnall , sexual violence research initiative ( svri ) ; anik gevers , svri ; chandré gould , institute for security studies ; and angelica pino , svriin south africa , daily maverick has exclusive rights to re - publish iss today articles . for media based outside south africa and queries about our re - publishing policy , email us . photo : guy oliver / alamy stock photo
__label__no_relevant not just a thappad : on domestic violence anubhav sushila sinha , the writer , director and producer of the film thappad ( 2020 ) , in a recent tweet ( 29 february 2020 ) expressed astonishment over the number of telephone calls he received from men about his recently released film . though the tweet does not betray the content of the response , it ­indicates that the film was instrumental in jolting the viewer to react . this characteristic of spectator reaction makes thappad an important film ; a film that boldly lashes out against the normalisation of domestic violence . it brings to the forefront social apathy to a form of injustice often neglected as a private matter , considered immaterial if brought out in the public domain and even berated for . the film brings to fore how emotionally dislodging and mentally excruci­ating is the act of being slapped . the protagonist amrita , played by taapsee pannu , is hit by her husband vikram , played by pavail gulati , at a party organised to celebrate the achievement of the latter . at the party , vikram gets into a heated argument when he gets to know that he was being superseded at work by another employee . amrita tries to calm him down , but he ends up hitting her . as the narrative progresses , the protagonist is perplexed at how conveniently people around her are able to return to their chores and expect her to do the same . the act remains with her , gnawing at her being , as she forces herself to participate in the mundane routine of household work . she remains disconcerted , feeling alienated in the tasks that she had hitherto dutifully performed and is unable to vent out her feelings . it is not “ the slap ” that is the central focus , but the aftermath of its occurrence . the film unravels how most ­family members were almost complicit . except for amrita ’ s father , ­essayed by kumud mishra , initially most agree that it was foolhardy to apply for divorce or leave the house “ only ” because of a slap , describing it as accidental , impelled by the anguish that vikram was undergoing . while most family members see it as a matter to be resolved by the couple and choose to keep mum , the turmoil of the protagonist is evocatively depicted . the cycle of existence does not cease for anyone , except her , who begins to question the worth of emotionally investing in a lopsided relationship . socialisation and social classa relevant departure that the film makes is in conveying that domestic violence is not just a class - specific phenomenon , a concern of only those who are apparently uneducated . bhattacharya ( 2004 ) highlights that women are often made to ­believe that homemaking is their fundamental duty , indisputably necessary at any cost . often it results in long - drawn procrastination about how speaking for themselves will be in conflict with their “ duties ” ( bhattacharya 2004 : 22 ) . lea­ving an abusive partner is often seen as a taboo across classes ( bhattacharya 2004 : 23 ) . the consequence to sepa­ration surfaces in the form of social boyco­tting of the victim by family and society at large . the film portrays that the modern ­indian , however advanced their professional ambitions may be , is still caught up in the throes of patriarchy . women all across the film , whether it is the successful lawyer , nethra , raped by her husband ; the domestic help , sunita , beaten mercilessly by her husband daily ; the housewife , sandhya , whose ambitions are nipped in the bud due to household duties ; the budding lawyer , swati , questioned by her husband for her pro - woman stance ; and the protagonist , ­amrita , are victims of overwhelmingly crude male attitudes . to look at this phenomenon from a ­developmental perspective , domestic ­violence is a serious form of “ unfreedom ” 1 that is throttling . agarwal and panda ( 2007 ) , borrowing conceptual categories from amartya sen ’ s work demonstrate the deleterious effects of domestic violence on the capacities of an individual . it is amply demonstrated in the film how patriarchal mentalities have thwarted “ capabilities ” 2 of women in varied aspects , such as exploring the economic opportunities available and viable , participating in community life and building social relationships . such acts erode the woman ’ s will to function , especially in relation to herself ( agarwal and panda 2007 : 364 ) . this incapacitation has an inter - individual relation too , as the impact of violence is not limited to the physical self . the film also portrays how the expe­ctations from women are channelled through socialisation by parents , especially mothers . sandhya , played by ratna pathak shah , who is obviously worried about the well - being of her daughter , pushes her to consider sorting out the ­issue . before the viewer can judge this , the narrative conveys that this was how she had been taught to be . this was an internalised self as shah too wanted to be a singer but chose not to tread the path of her ambition as it would have put her domestic responsibilities in disarray . to her , this seems as an obvious choice for her daughter in order to maintain the sanctity of the relationship . similar ­entreaties are made by sulakshana , ­amrita ’ s mother - in - law , constantly remi­nding her that as a woman she must learn to bear . the film critiques this sacrificial tendency repeatedly , questioning the indoctrination of self - effacement as a feminine trait . violence of divorcethe portrayal of the process of litigation gives an insight into the role of the judiciary and the nature of laws that guide cases of separation and domestic violence . it is crucial to consider that applying for a separation is also seen as a male prerogative . the application for separation by mutual consent , filed by amrita , is not agreed to . vikram repeatedly gives the argument that there was nothing wrong and the reaction to the slap was uncalled for . the extent of callousness crosses all limits when vikram ’ s colleague / friend justifies hitting as an expression of love . amrita ’ s lawyer advises that she could ask for maintenance and share in property , likening the marriage to an investment that she was going to lose . vis - à - vis this argument , amrita ’ s response brings to the fore two contrasting dimensions about marriage . while the first posits marriage as an institution of contractual expedience , the other point of view is the notion of marriage as a relationship of compassionate companionship . ram kapoor , as vikram ’ s lawyer , fears and warns that levelling a charge of domestic violence in the petition would mean serious criminal consequences . the matters transpire in a manner that amrita is forced to bring in this dimension . false accusations of mental torture , paranoia , harassment of family members and faking the incident are levelled against her . the matter takes an uglier turn , mirroring the state of reality of family courts and marital violence legislations in india . agnes ( 2019 ) , citing the survey figures of nfhs - 3 ( national family health survey ) 2005–06 , observes that violence is the veiled reality of several indian marriages . she adds that the incidence increases when there is ­absence of women ’ s voice in economic and household decision - making . the same can be observed in the case of ­amrita and sunita . while the latter is the significant breadwinner of the family , her economic contribution is sidelined and she is forced to work . the protagonist is able to liberate herself with a timely legislation . but this process is not smooth and hurdle - free for several litigants . agnes ( 2019 ) describes specific cases to put forth the concern that despite the window period of 60 days under section 12 ( 5 ) of the domestic violence act , 2005 , the norm is openly flouted . the victims are put to scrutiny by the public eye as well . often is the case that raising a voice against such acts leads to the stigmatisation of women as housebreakers . moreover , the lack of awareness and the fear of losing financial support and being left alone to battle out such crises lead to the acceptance of violence as fated . invisible women ’ s workin relation with domestic violence , the film explores several other issues . one of these is the notion of what is implied by work . the film seeks to puncture the ­notion that work is only that which is ­accounted for and paid for . amrita , in a conversation with her lawyer , articulates very clearly that to be a housewife was a choice that she had made and wanted to be respected for her decision . the fact that it was perceived as a limitation and her commitment to her work at home is taken for granted befuddles her . the non - recognition of domestic work is a serious issue that many women in ­india confront . the nature of “ household work ” is expansive , involving “ mental , emotional and spiritual tasks ” ( eichler 2008 : 15 ) . it is imperative to recognise that the burden of this work is rendered invisible by its non - recognition . it is pro­blematic as it involves the failure to recognise a significant contribution of productive labour performed for the welfare of families ( often husbands , children and parents in matrimonial homes ) . this is crucial as this “ work ” is taken for granted as “ duty . ” coping with its enormity is no less a balancing act . the haste with which amrita completes all the chores , although assisted by sunita ( househelp ) , clearly show­cases that she has no time for herself . although conveyed in a joking manner , she tells her neighbour , a successful corporate employee , that she too has a meeting ( actually a dance lesson for her neighbour ’ s daughter ) . belonging to the upper - middle class , her burden is eased by the help . but for the likes of those are ­unable to afford assistance and have to work outside their homes too , often suffer from time poverty ( sanghera 2019 ) . as evident from the global gender gap report 2020 , women , in comparison to men , devote considerably more hours per week on unpaid voluntary work . according to the report , it is a pertinent factor that accounts for disparities amongst men and women . depiction in bollywoodsignificant to note is bollywood ’ s enga­ge­ment with this subject . repeatedly , films that have dealt with domestic violence have focused on extremities of violence . films such as mehndi ( 1998 ) , raja ki aayegi baraat ( 1997 ) , daman ( 2001 ) , and provoked ( 2006 ) speak of the gruesomeness and extreme steps taken by protagonists to free themselves of this barbarity . sadly , the films portray that judicial action / intervention is limited and these women have to take up their cause themselves . interestingly , most of these films are from a period when the legal definition of domestic violence was limited . it was post after 2005 that the ambit of what was characterised as domestic violence was broadened under the protection of women from domestic violence act , 2005 . no longer did it remain limited to physical violence , but also extended to other forms such as emotional / verbal , sexual , and economic . the consideration of invisible forms of violence that plague marital relationships was a much needed gesture . however , what is necessary to consider is that the act in itself does not suffice . it has to be coupled with empowering initiatives that help victims rebuild their lives . it is imperative that those who choose to come out are supported and the public officials / public machinery are sensitive and cooperative to their needs . often , it is the case that reporting violence is ­itself an arduous task and the journey of legislation is long - drawn , self - defeating , threatening and financially draining . an important filmthe film thappad is exemplary as the makers have taken up the cudgels to address a concern that has hitherto remained at the periphery of portrayals in popular culture . ater the ­release of the film , a video by taapsee pannu was in circulation , aimed at generating awareness about domestic violence and the necessity of speaking out . this was seen as a promotion gimmick by a few , but given the sensitive engagement with the subject in the film , this must not be seen in a reductive manner . it is sad that a movie that is attempting to debunk stereotypical images of devoted women , often reinforced via popular culture mediums themselves , has been targeted . it is both malicious and regretful that there are forums where individuals expressed that the film must be boyco­tted as the makers and actors have ­expressed supposedly anti - government views . voices were raised to boycott the film , such as the #boycottthappad hashtag on twitter , for its makers ’ social and political views . this culture of targeting the film , discounting the merit of the theme and performance is dangerous . it obliterates the wider aims with which such films are made . instead of widening the propensity for the film ’ s reach ( such as ­decl­aring the film tax - free ) , the political sloganeering shows a tendency to turn a nelson ’ s eye towards such pertinent concerns . the identification of this film as a “ milestone ” ( india today 2020 ) , “ the most important film of the generation ” ( hindustan times 2020 ) amply demonstrates the resonance it has with audiences . the film speaks about and speaks to several generations about the discomforting and agonising expectations that women are cast in . it is high time the practice of taking women for granted is stopped . it is also a telling rejoinder for films that celebrate acts of violence as indications of “ fierce ” love . the message is clear , honest and loud : violence is unacce­p­t­able . dehumanising oneself and accepting a semblance of existence in a man ’ s world is not done . the slap becomes a catalyst that reminds amrita of who she was and what she had accepted to become . the film is her journey to salvage herself out of this inanity and live life on terms that do not pose a threat to her self - esteem . notes1 agarwal and panda ( 2007 ) elucidate that freedom is a key idea in sen ’ s work . it is intertwined with the concept of development . it is argued that development , in a holistic manner cannot be realised until liberated from the prevalent forms of unfreedom . 2 deriving from amartya sen ’ s work , agarwal and panda ( 2007 ) explain that capabilities are the “ ability or opportunity a person has to do or be what she values ” ( p 361 ) . they argue that domestic violence , with patriarchal norms as its bedrock , is thwarting that possibility of female participation in various social sectors . referencesagarwal , bina , and pradeep panda ( 2007 ) : ­ “ toward freedom from domestic violence : the neglected obvious , ” journal of human ­development , vol 8 , no 3 , pp 359–88 . agnes , flavia ( 2019 ) : “ what survivours of dome­stic violence need from their new government , ” economic & political weekly engage , vol 54 , no 17 . bhattacharya , rinki ( 2004 ) : “ introduction , ” behind closed doors : domestic violence in india , rinki bhattacharya ( ed ) , delhi : sage publication , pp 13–34 . eichler , margrit ( 2008 ) : “ integrating carework and housework into household work : a conceptual clarification , ” journal of the association for research on mothering , vol 10 , no 1 , pp 9–19 . ht ( 2020 ) : “ ayushmann khurrana calls thappad ‘most important film of our generation , ’ hansal mehta apologises to all women in his life , ” hindustan times , bollywood , 29 february , viewed on 3 march , 2020 https : / / www . hindustantimes . com / bollywood / ayushmann - khurrana - calls - thappa . . . . india today ( 2020 ) : “ javed akhtar calls thappad a milestone in indian cinema , mic - drop moment says taapsee pannu , ” 29 february , viewed on3 march 2020 , https : / / www . indiatoday . in / movies / bollywood / story / thappad - javed - akhtar - ca . . . . sanghera , tish ( 2019 ) : “ how domestic responsibilities are keeping india ’ s women away from workfroce , increasing inequality , ” scroll , 26 march , viewed on 3 march 2020 , https : / / scroll . in / article / 917767 / how - domestic - responsibilities - are - keepi . . . . wef ( 2020 ) : “ global gender gap report 2020 , ” world economic forum , http : / / www3 . weforum . org / docs / wef_gggr_2020 . pdf . 
__label__no_relevant rollinsford police : domestic violence suspect sought after fleeing from officer rollinsford — police are seeking a woman who allegedly fled from police early saturday morning , hours after a domestic violence arrest . sarah letendre , 34 , was arrested about 11 p . m . friday , july 10 after police were called for a disturbance , according to chief robert ducharme of the rollinsford police department . she was charged with domestic violence simple assault , obstructing report of crime and resisting arrest . on saturday , july 11 , at approximately 4 : 29 a . m . , letendre was stopped by the rollinsford police for for alleged violation of a protective order for contacting the victim in the earlier incident . as an officer attempted to arrest her and remove her from the vehicle , she sped off , according to ducharme . “ fortunately the officer released his grip on her and was not injured as a result , ” ducharme wrote in a press release . a warrant was obtained for letendre on the following charges : reckless conduct , violation of a protective order , resisting arrest , disobeying a police officer and breach of bail conditions . letendre was last seen driving a white jeep patriot with new hampshire license plate 4644631 . ducharme requests anyone who sees her to call rollinsford police at ( 603 ) 742 - 8549 or their local police department . 
__label__no_relevant new archbishop of york sorry for response to domestic abuse allegations the incoming archbishop of york has apologised for failing to take proper action relating to allegations of domestic abuse by a priest which were disclosed to him 10 years ago . stephen cottrell , who will be confirmed as the church of england ’ s second most senior cleric next week , failed to ensure that the disclosure had been properly documented and that further action had been taken . “ i am deeply distressed and extremely sorry , ” he said in a statement on monday . he added : “ in my new position as archbishop of york it is absolutely essential that i am open and transparent about the need for the whole of our church to be scrupulously honest with each other about any failings in safeguarding . ” justin welby , the archbishop of canterbury , said cottrell “ clearly should have informed the authorities and made fuller notes of what he did in this case . he has shown humility in immediately admitting he failed to act as he should have done in this case . ” the disclosure of cottrell ’ s shortcomings in the case is a blow to the c of e , which has worked to rebuild trust on safeguarding issues after decades of convictions and allegations of physical , sexual , psychological and emotional abuse , and their cover - up by church leaders . welby has repeatedly apologised to survivors for abuse carried out by clergy and has pledged to implement the recommendations of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse when it publishes its report on its investigations into the church , expected next year . concerns about the way cottrell handled the abuse disclosure were raised with the church ’ s national safeguarding team ( nst ) this year . the nst investigated the matter , took independent legal advice and interviewed cottrell . in a statement , the nst said : “ the concerns raised were about the action taken following allegations of domestic abuse perpetrated by a parish priest . at the time bishop stephen responded to the survivor , offered support and subsequently referred the allegation within the diocese , but did not ensure the matter was referred to the statutory authorities or directly to the diocesan safeguarding adviser . ” cottrell had “ shown insight and humility in accepting that he failed to act as he should have done in relation to a serious matter … the nst investigation concluded that he posed no current risk of not responding appropriately to safeguarding disclosures and that informal action was a reasonable and proportionate response to the case . ” cottrell said : “ ten years ago i was approached about a safeguarding allegation regarding a priest . i was able to see the survivor and begin to hear what was a difficult and harrowing story . “ however , i was moving between roles at the time and although i did speak with colleagues about the actions that needed to be taken , i failed to ensure that these were properly documented and followed through in the way i would expect . now that i have discovered that this incident was not followed up as it should have been , i am deeply distressed and extremely sorry … “ in the past , the church of england has been too quick to protect its own reputation and slow to admit its failings . this must change . those in public office should be subject to scrutiny . ” he said he was embarrassed at his shortcomings , but added : “ i want to go on the record about what has happened in order to demonstrate a new spirit of openness and transparency . ” 
__label__relevant why a drop in domestic violence reports might not be a good sign the police commissioner , dermot f . shea , has asked domestic violence officers in the precincts to reach out to people they know have been victims in the past or might be vulnerable and check on them . “ what i ’ m concerned about is it ’ s happening and it ’ s not getting reported , and i think that ’ s a reality we should all face , ” mr . shea said . the reported downturn in domestic violence in the city contrasts with a spike reported statewide . for example , state police troopers responded to 1 , 753 domestic violence calls last month , a 15 percent increase from march 2019 , when there were 1 , 522 calls , a spokesman said . the police agencies serve vastly different populations . new york city officers patrol a dense city where victims usually have other options than calling the police . state troopers , on the other hand , are often the only resource for miles in some of the state ’ s rural communities . the split between the city and the state was also reflected in calls to domestic violence hotlines . calls to the state hotline increased nearly 18 percent last month compared to february . the city hotline , operated by safe horizon , a nonprofit , saw an 11 percent drop over the same period , although use of its online chat service increased . some shelter providers in the city , however , have seen their phones light up . the violence intervention program , a nonprofit that operates a shelter and serves primarily latin american women , saw an increase of nearly 35 percent in calls to its help line in march compared to february , primarily from victims seeking emergency shelter . and recent arrests in the city suggest the crisis is putting pressure on some troubled families , whose members suddenly find themselves confined at home together nearly all day , every day . mohammad mohebi , 27 , the man who the police say slapped his daughter , was usually at work during the day , while the girl and her younger sister were at school or with their grandmother . his wife , a graduate student , was usually at school , too , but the couple and their two daughters were all sheltering in place in their apartment in downtown flushing , officials said . 
__label__relevant red bank pd ' s k - 9 assists in pursuit of domestic violence suspect red bank , nj – one of red bank ' s bravest successfully located a domestic violence suspect after the alleged assailant fled on foot , according to police . k - 9 hunter , a six - year - old belgian malinois , assisted the borough of red bank police department in successfully tracking down the accused individual over the weekend . while the accused fled the scene of the incident before police could arrive , k - 9 hunter successfully located a house after several hundred yards of searching . when the 75 - pound canine heard a noise behind the residence , police officers set up a perimeter around the location . it was when ptl . stan balmer announced that hunter would be entering the wooded area that the pursued individual fled again . this time , the accused was apprehended by police . hunter is the first k - 9 to serve with the borough of red bank police department , assisting his human partner ptl . stan balmer . 
__label__relevant london ' s only domestic violence centre for black women in fight for its future es news email the latest headlines in your inbox twice a day monday - friday plus breaking news updates enter your email address continue please enter an email address email address is invalid fill out this field email address is invalid you already have an account . please log in register with your social account or click here to log in i would like to receive lunchtime headlines monday - friday plus breaking news alerts , by email update newsletter preferenceslondon ’ s only domestic violence centre dedicated specifically to the needs of black women faces eviction at the end of july . this could see it sent back to “ deeply unsuitable ” premises that might jeopardise the safety of the capital ’ s black women , its founder has said . sistah space rents its premises from hackney council . the charity , founded six years ago , moved out of its original shopfront location last september while the council carried out repairs . now the £35 , 000 refurbishment is finished , the council has given sistah space until the end of july to move back . charity founder ngozi fulani told the standard that the original premises in lower clapton road are still “ unsafe ” for domestic violence survivors because of how exposed the glass shopfront is to the street , as well as anti - social behaviour in the surrounding area . ms fulani said the number of people wanting help from the charity has massively increased since the move . she added that she is worried survivors would be less likely to come to the centre if it were forced to move back to its original location , which would “ be a real blow to the community . " london needs a domestic violence centre for black women because of the specific problems faced by many black people in the uk , ms fulani added . sistah space often acts as an intermediary between victims of domestic abuse and the police because of a relatively widespread distrust of the force , she said . black people are much more likely than people of other ethnic groups to be subject to stop - and - search procedures in the uk . met police officers used force against black people five times more often than white people in 2018 / 19 , according to government figures . figures released by the independent office for police conduct ( iopc ) , covering 2004 - 2019 , show black people are nearly twice as likely to die in police custody than white people . the met has said that people from “ african - caribbean heritage ” are more likely to be victims or perpetrators of knife crime and that much of london ’ s violence happens in more diverse areas . ms fulani said : “ we have sons , husbands , brothers , uncles . we know that if we reported a black man to the police that could mean death or serious injury . so although we want the violence and the abuse to stop , we don ’ t want the perpetrator dead or injured . “ and that ’ s a massive problem because we can see that there ’ s a massive divide between the police and the community . " but bridging the gap shouldn ’ t be a one - way effort , ms fulani added . she said : “ our community isn ’ t always innocent in this because sometimes particular communities will put pressure on you if you report to the police , because of an idea that ‘that ’ s not how we do it in africa ’ or ‘that ’ s not how we do it in the caribbean ’ . so you can even be made to feel like you betrayed your people when you report abuse . “ now these are things that most people who aren ’ t black cannot understand and cannot cater for . women who think ‘immigration is going to throw me out ’ if they make a fuss . or even if they ’ ve got ‘stay ’ [indefinite leave to remain] or are british - think about windrush - there are women who feel so betrayed and let down that they sometimes think they would rather die than go to the police . " other problems can be more mundane - if no less tragic - issues linked to language . ms fulani gave the example of someone who struggled to describe the violence of a man ’ s assault on her to police . she said : “ we sat with someone who explained to the police that the perpetrator held her neck and it hurt . so she demonstrated and i asked ‘so he strangled you ? ’ ‘yes , ’ she said . “ and then she said : ’ i looked up and he was in the room . and then he was there ’ . so the police wrote that down word for word . but i asked ‘what do you mean he was there ? ’ and it turned out he was raping her , but she used the word ‘there ’ . ms fulani continued : “ you can ’ t just get an interpreter , it ’ s more than an interpreter . it ’ s their use of the english language . it ’ s about empathy and understanding someone ’ s culture . she ’ s reported this over nine years . now she ’ s got two babies that are from rape . “ it ’ s only after nine years that she could actually make the statement when she found sistah space and now the police are after both of the perpetrators . ” a recent demonstration outside hackney town hall in support of sistah space drew in hundreds of people . tyrone scott , a community organiser in london with housing charity shelter , took part and said the support was “ massive ” . he added : “ what this shows is that the support for sistah space and the needs of black women is out there , not just in hackney but in the rest of london too . ” a spokesperson for hackney council said : “ although sistah space had agreed to move back to their new premises once refurbishment was complete , we understand concerns about moving at this time and have offered to extend their current temporary arrangements until at least the end of july . we ’ ll continue to monitor this situation . ” 
__label__relevant angleha dhuman : single mom breaking out of cycle of domestic violence , dependency growing up in an abusive home and becoming a victim of domestic abuse from just 14 years of age by a man she was forced to marry , angleha dhuman of corentyne , berbice is now a proud survivor and is enjoying her independence . the 27 - year - old mother of three girls , ages six , 11 and 12 , who works at a chinese restaurant , willingly shared her story of the nine years of horror she endured at the hands of her husband . she told stabroek news ( sn ) that he beat her with wires or anything he found at hand , threw plates at her and even pushed her down the stairs , especially when he was drunk . the most horrible memories she has was of her drunk husband raping her on their wedding night . dhuman said , “ i am really happy that i left him and i can give my kids a good life . now i don ’ t have to worry that on the weekends someone will come home , stressing me and my kids out…i thank god for peaceful days and nights… ” she wished if she could have done more for her children though because “ they ’ re getting big and things getting harder… they have a lot of needs . ” besides , disaster struck on october 26 , 2019 , when they lost everything in a fire that gutted the house they were sharing with her mother , her brother and his daughter . “ it was hard because i had to start all over again , ” she said . they moved to a small house on a plot of land belonging to her father . kindhearted individuals came forward and provided assistance including school items for her children . a us - based guyanese woman got someone to build the family a one - flat concrete house , which has been left incomplete . the woman also started a gofundme on facebook and managed to raise us$6 , 790 on behalf of the family . she has still not handed over the money . dhuman also found it strange that the woman and her husband called her brother suddenly and told him that they would stop the project . she is now distressed about where they would find the money from to complete the house . she was unable to work for three months because of the coronavirus disease ( covid - 19 ) pandemic and only turned out a few weeks ago . during the time she was not working , she said the children ’ s father was “ but he didn ’ t even send anything to help for them… ” she had left him on many occasions but “ he would come and beg and cry and because my mom was very poor and did not have a good life , i would go back . i tried my best to get him to change , but he would only change for two weeks… ” then he would continue to torment and abuse her . freedomshe finally found her freedom after he attempted to abuse a young female relative . the girl ’ s father gave him a sound beating and took him to the police station but the matter was never pursued . as a child , dhuman and her siblings looked on helplessly while her father abused her mother . but she never realized that soon after she too would become a victim of abuse in a marriage where she never found love . when she was 12 - years - old her mother decided to leave her father . but instead of finding happiness , her mother got involved with another man who turned out to be twice as abusive . this drove extreme fear into dhuman and her two siblings . an older sister had already gotten married at age 14 . to get them out of the situation , her mother thought it best to start “ making match for me and my small sister without finding out more about the people . ” her mother found a man , 10 years her senior and told her she had to marry him . she protested but her mother insisted , saying that the man ’ s family owns a house and a fishing boat , which he operated . but according to dhuman , “ he always made broke trip . ” he now works as a carpenter . a few days before the wedding , her mother ran away from her abusive partner and left dhuman and her siblings at a friend ’ s house . with just two days remaining for the wedding , the woman then called dhuman ’ s brother - in - law to be for him to pick them up and take them to their ( her intended in laws ’ ) house . her mother showed up the day before the wedding . soon after , her mother found a much older man for her 12 - year - old sister to marry . even though the man “ never short her for anything , ” he too was very abusive . she got pregnant but suffered a miscarriage and her mother - in - law kept abusing her verbally for that . a few years later when another daughter - in - law became pregnant “ the abuse got even worse . ” sadly , her sister , who was 18 - years - old by then , died by committing suicide . miseryby the time dhuman was 16 - years - old she already had two children and was living a life of misery . according to her , the man “ never showed me love and never did anything for me even if i got sick . i was like his maid . he never bought new clothes for me and my kids because all he did was drinking out his money . ” she said too that her children “ never drink any proper milk or ever eat baby food . my big daughter drink black tea and sometimes we does credit cow milk for her . she didn ’ t breast feed because i was so young… the second girl breast feed until she was six - years - old because we never afford to buy milk . it was the same thing for the small girl until i left that monster… ” his mother lived in a house in front of theirs , in the same yard and provided food for them when the man “ drink out the money . ” she was also abusive to dhuman . the woman would even prevent dhuman from leaving the yard to report her son to the police “ after he misbehaved… . at one time a neighbour reported him and his mother cursed up the police and the neighbour . ” the man would stay out and consume alcohol until after midnight , whenever he got paid . he would start to verbally abuse her from the street while going home and would continue until around 4 or 5 o ’ clock in the morning . he would also blast music “ from a big big music box in our small one - bedroom house . he didn ’ t care if the kids couldn ’ t sleep and if i said anything he would start cursing and breaking up things in the house . “ the neighbours would “ report him for loud music and he would go to jail for a day or two . ” after she got her third child he became even more abusive . he would leave for work but would end up drinking with friends . refused to support childrenafter she separated five years ago , she struggled to make ends meet . the man refused to support his children when she asked him and he told her to go to the court instead . the court ordered him to pay $2000 per week for each child “ but he told the judge he could not afford that much so the judge settled for $1500 . ” he started to pay for about two months but left to work in suriname . he promised to send the money to his mother to make the payments . but that only happened for about two months as well . he called and told her that he did not make enough money . “ he returned from suriname and paid $20 , 000… . whenever he called he was always drunk . then one day his mother called and said that both of them going to trinidad and they will send the money but they never sent any . five months later they called and asked how much is the money so i went and find out at the court and it was $300 , 000 , ” dhuman stated . the man has stopped making payments and the amount has increased to a lot more . dhuman was his third wife and the first to have children for him . he remarried for the fourth time and that wife , who is pregnant , also suffered abuse and left him a few months later . “ when i left my husband , my little girl was just one - year - old and nobody was working . some days we had nothing to cook or eat and the two big girls have to go to school . it was really hard , ” she recalled . determined to bring an end their situation , she told her mother she was going to look for a job . her mother discouraged her because “ my little girl was too small and was breastfeeding . ” she nevertheless went out and searched but “ got turned down . ” she eventually secured a job at the chinese restaurant even though her mother had told her “ people would look down on me… ” dhuman , whose life was centred around poverty and the abuse of alcohol , said she would not like any other women to suffer like she did . reflecting on what she “ passed through in life , ” she told sn that becoming independent was the best thing that ever happened to her . 
__label__relevant qps stands down senior officer over domestic violence allegations the queensland police minister has defended the temporary standing down of one of the state ’ s senior officers while allegations of domestic violence are investigated . late last night , the courier mail reported the queensland police service had stood down a senior member of the force . minister for police mark furner said he , along with all queenslanders , held police to the highest standards . “ we have ( high expectations ) from the top to the bottom ( of the service ) , ” he said . “ i understand the matter is under investigation , but those standards will be kept . ” commissioner katarina carroll confirmed the crime and corruption commission would oversee the investigation , and mr furner said he trusted the right thing would be done . “ i trust the system , it ’ s very robust with lots of checks and balances , ” he said . ms carroll said she was disappointed to hear complaints of domestic violence levelled against a senior member of the service . “ i expect the highest standards of my officers and the community rightly shares these high expectations , ” she said . if anything , expectations are and should be even higher . “ any qps member subject to such allegations will be treated with the same scrutiny . ” the victim was being spoken to again by police today , with a decision set to be made on any formal charges for the officer in coming days . “ it is working with the victim that a decision will be made as to what happens in the future , and that is critically important in this because it is about the victim and her safety , ” ms carroll said . police issued a police protection notice to the alleged victim that operates as a temporary protection order and doesn ’ t imply any guilt . 
__label__relevant as lockdown lingers , a rural reckoning with domestic violence many factors increase risks of violence against women ; in canada , indigenous and black women experience higher rates of domestic violence , for example . so do rural residents . in tightknit , traditional places , where the nearest police station might be a half an hour away , and the closest women ’ s shelter even farther , escaping abusive relationships can be particularly difficult . myrna dawson , a professor at the university of guelph , in ontario , says that beliefs such as those dictating more rigid gender roles , and norms around the importance of guns , as well as on - the - ground realities including lack of public transportation , increase the associated risks . in canada , the need to act now has been thrown into particularly sharp relief . that is due in part to the aftermath of april ’ s deadly shooting in nova scotia , which left 23 people dead . a former neighbor of the gunman in portapique recently told the media he had a history of domestic abuse . but it is also due to the realization that the pandemic has locked victimized women and girls worldwide into homes with their abusers . the coronavirus pandemic has catapulted the consequences of isolation and silence toward domestic violence , often compounded in rural contexts , to the fore across north america . before he perpetrated the worst mass shooting in canada ’ s history , the gunman had allegedly inflicted something lamentably more mundane : violence against his partner . and if nova scotia was shocked by the 13 - hour rampage through its rural hinterland that resulted in 23 deaths , including the gunman ’ s , in the middle of a global pandemic , it was less startled when a former neighbor of the gunman in portapique told the media he had a history of domestic abuse . that included one incident that she says she reported to police in 2013 , in which he is alleged to have beaten and strangled his female partner before three male witnesses . it was not the first incident to be “ whispered about ” yet not confronted . “ i think sometimes in rural nova scotia , there is this culture of not speaking out , of minding your own business , not rocking the boat , ” says johannah black , the bystander intervention program coordinator with the antigonish women ’ s resource centre , a women ’ s shelter serving two rural counties in nova scotia . “ that is something that leads to isolation , to not having these discussions , to looking the other way . ” editor ’ s note : as a public service , all our coronavirus coverage is free . no paywall . but now nova scotia , where blue and green tartan scarves are still fluttering from front porches and mailboxes in grief over the aftermath of the april mass shooting , is being forced to look at domestic violence that has too often been dismissed , or unconsciously accepted . the reckoning comes as the pandemic has catapulted the consequences of isolation and silence toward domestic violence , often compounded in rural contexts , to the fore across north america . “ i think our society is forever changed , i think we all recognize that . covid has highlighted the complexity of domestic violence , ” says gloria terry , the ceo of the texas council on family violence in austin . it ’ s also prompted a scramble , she says , to innovate new services that might help reach rural women from portapique to the texas panhandle long after the last restrictions are lifted . “ three months ago no one thought about doing telehealth approaches , or giving support to survivors through virtual platforming , ” ms . terry says . “ out of sheer necessity we have equipped ourselves with new tools that can be effective . ” “ in a room full of people , and they all turned away ” in canada , the need to act now has been thrown into particularly sharp relief – both due to the aftermath of the nova scotia shooting and the realization that the pandemic has locked victimized women and girls worldwide into homes with their abusers . for janet rhodes , that has meant moving her organization , domestic abuse survivor help , which connects survivors with mentors who have also experienced violence , online . with the possibility of in - person meetings in her home province of saskatchewan off the table , and with the scarcity of services in rural parts of canada and the united states in mind , ms . rhodes is now looking at offering support via zoom . “ we can connect with more people that way , ” she says . “ so they ’ re getting that validation that this is not just them , that this is happening to other people . ” it ’ s a lifeline ms . rhodes herself could have used the first time her partner abused her . early in their relationship in the early 1990s , when seemingly out of nowhere he threw a frying pan at her , she barely had the words to process it . later in their relationship , they moved into a small community of dundurn , saskatchewan , a tiny grid of streets alongside the highway , in the middle of the vast canadian prairie . as violence escalated , ms . rhodes eventually turned to the only resource available : a list of crisis phone numbers at the front of the phone book . but she called one only to have a person on the other end of the line tell her she should buy her husband some flowers . “ that kept me there for quite a few more years , because i thought , ‘okay , i ’ m not doing a good enough job as a wife . ’ ” many factors increase risks of violence against women ; in canada , indigenous and black women experience higher rates of domestic violence , for example . so do rural residents . in tight - knit , traditional places , where the nearest police station might be a half an hour away , and the closest women ’ s shelter even farther , escaping abusive relationships can be particularly difficult . myrna dawson , a professor at the university of guelph , in ontario , and director of the canadian femicide observatory for justice and accountability , says that beliefs such as those dictating more rigid gender roles and norms around the importance of guns , as well as on - the - ground realities including lack of public transportation , affordable housing , or support services , increase the associated risks . statistics canada data shows rates of domestic violence are nearly twice as high in rural settings as in urban ones – and where women are more likely to be killed by an intimate partner , especially with a gun . a study in the u . s . showed similar results . in ms . rhodes ’ s case , she didn ’ t seek help for years until the stakes were increasingly life - or - death . in 2010 , when they moved to a bigger town with a police detachment down the street , she found an opportunity to load her infant son in his stroller and flee to the station . it was only after her husband ’ s arrest that she realized how many people already knew , or suspected , and had done nothing . “ it felt like i was sitting in the middle of a room screaming my head off , in a room full of people , and they all turned away . ” silence amid the pandemicin the context of the pandemic , advocates are worried that they aren ’ t hearing from the most isolated women . in texas , for example , ms . terry says that while many metropolitan domestic abuse hotlines have lit up , in some rural areas they have fallen silent . groups are mobilizing to reach victims who might feel that there is no help for them as some shelters have had to reduce capacity to adhere to social distancing . heather bellino , ceo of the texas advocacy project ( tap ) , which provides free legal services for domestic abuse victims , says they are disseminating information about alternatives to help where they can , from urgent care centers to food banks . “ we ’ re working really hard to get the message to people in the rural communities that even if the number of beds is lowered , it doesn ’ t mean you should not reach out to your shelter , because many have now struck deals with hoteliers , ” she says , “ because we know the number of survivors or people that are being hurt has not decreased . ” in nova scotia , ms . black has focused on creating written resources to help bystanders intervene during the pandemic , with measures such as agreeing on a safe word that friends or family members can use over the phone to indicate if they ’ re in danger . “ for me what ’ s hopeful is when i ’ m contacted by various survivors . . . who are telling me that something like this would have made a difference for them in the past . ” but these measures alone won ’ t address the problem of domestic violence , she says , noting that deeper societal change is necessary . ms . black and others have called for a feminist inquiry into the massacre – set off after the gunman assaulted his long - term girlfriend and bound her up until she freed herself and ran into the woods . the case in nova scotia may be extreme , but it ’ s part of a culture and attitudes that normalized the gunman ’ s behaviors leading up to it , they say . “ these perpetrators represent the extreme end of a continuum of attitudes and beliefs held by the general public – particularly men – that facilitate and maintain violence against women and girls as normal and acceptable in some contexts , ” professor dawson says . “ you can come and live with us , now ” cary ryan supports the feminist inquiry . as a survivor of intimate partner violence herself , she knows the fundamental role that society at large plays . she has been working with a research project with nancy ross , a professor in the school of social work at dalhousie university in halifax , on the effects of “ pro - arrest ” policies in canada . under pro - arrest policies , police arrest suspected perpetrators of domestic violence , even if victims don ’ t want to proceed with charges . the intention of such an approach is to show zero tolerance for domestic violence . but professor ross and ms . ryan ’ s work is showing that pro - arrest policies can have negative consequences for marginalized groups , including indigenous and non - white individuals , and can backfire in rural contexts . research on similar policies in u . s . states has demonstrated comparable consequences . they say it is communities themselves that need to stop tolerating domestic violence . a decade ago , ms . ryan was living in a rural part of british columbia with a partner , who was also one of two police officers in town . ms . ryan was socially isolated – they ’ d moved there for his job – and the relationship was abusive . when she finally decided she needed to leave , she reached out to the only person in town she knew . “ they said , ‘you can come and live with us , now . ’ these were complete strangers . ” the fact that the community rallied around her – and rejected her former partner – helped her heal . “ i was able to hold my head high after all i ’ d been through in that small community . ” get the monitor stories you care about delivered to your inbox . by signing up , you agree to our privacy policyin ms . ryan ’ s case , the dynamics that can increase the risks of domestic violence in rural communities – the isolation and the smallness – may have saved her , as people came forward offering help and belonging . “ i know that that wouldn ’ t have happened in an urban area , ” she says . “ people came and stood with me and believed me . ” editor ’ s note : this story was updated to correct the photo caption . 
__label__relevant why the increase in domestic violence during covid - 19 ? among all of the horrors that has wrought , is a growing scourge that lurks in the shadows . indeed , a stark uptick in reports of domestic violence and abuse ( more commonly referred to in clinical settings as “ intimate partner violence ” or “ ipv ” ) has recently received national ( and even global ) . new estimates from the united nations population fund suggest that three months of quarantine will result in a 20 percent rise in ipv throughout the world . in total , the report predicts at least 15 million additional cases of ipv will occur as a result of covid - 19 lockdowns . for some , the correlation between sheltering - in - place and increased ipv seems to have elicited surprise . new york governor andrew cuomo , for example , expressed alarm upon learning of the increased reports of domestic violence within his state . but for anyone experienced with ipv , the increase in its occurrence arrived with the predictability of the tides . ipv surges in times of natural disasters and crises . we previously witnessed this ugly social phenomenon during hurricane harvey in 2017 , and we will see it again during whatever form of armageddon brings the nation to its knees on the next go - around . source : harris county district attorney ’ s office - domestic violence caseload statistics , 2018the question still remains , though : why ? plentiful research exists demonstrating several key factors associated with ipv , including during times of natural disaster and crisis . by examining this literature , we can better understand why today ’ s lockdown measures appear to be fueling increased instances of ipv . isolationwith workplaces closed , visits to family and friends discouraged , and even public parks off - limits , has become government - sanctioned . unfortunately , social isolation is one of the most common tactics employed by perpetrators of ipv . by isolating victims from friends , family , and any outside contact , abusers are able to assert control over the victim ’ s entire environment . social isolation can lead to the normalization of abuse and allow abusers to more easily engage in gaslighting techniques . severe and persistent isolation can cause victims to rely solely on their abusers to define a sense of reality , which feeds into a cycle of abuse that is very difficult to escape . stressanother factor commonly associated with ipv is stress . natural disasters and crises catalyze immense stress responses that often correlate with increases in ipv . as mentioned above , one study examining interpersonal violence in the wake of hurricane harvey found that stress associated with the disaster was related to higher rates of ipv both during and after the hurricane . a similar report following the 1989 exxon valdez oil spill in alaska found that disaster - related stress was associated with a nearly threefold increase in ipv . with regard to the covid - 19 pandemic , stressors abound . in many ways , disease outbreaks can foster a type of stress more insidious than that of other disasters . namely , pandemics ignite the unknown . during most disasters such as hurricanes or earthquakes , we know whether or not we ’ ve been personally impacted . although these events can be extraordinarily , there is at least an established time boundary from which we can begin to assess damage and eventually move forward . but with viral pandemics , we are often left in an ongoing state of risk and worry , triggering an overexposure of the stress hormone cortisol . elevations in stress have long been associated with increased . economic anxiety and joblessnessone specific type of stressor has been given significant attention in the context of ipv : economic . indeed , plentiful research has shown that ipv is more likely ( and more severe ) in households that are economically distressed . for example , studies from the 2008 recession found that increases in unemployment claims correlated with a greater number of reported cases of ipv . today , the covid - 19 pandemic has caused unprecedented job loss at levels comparable to the great . source : us bureau labor statisticsmany researchers believe that a perceived threat to the masculine undergirds the relationship between economic anxiety and ipv ( e . . , dutton & browning , 1988 ; totten , 2003 ) . one qualitative study interviewed 33 men attending a domestic violence program and found that threats to masculine identities played a significant role in the occurrence of ipv ( anderson & umberson , 2001 ) . when masculinity is threatened ( for example , by job loss and the perceived failure to “ provide ” ) , abusers respond with violence in order to regain a sense of power and control in their relationships . alcoholalcohol is also widely considered to be a key predictor of ipv , primarily due to its disinhibitory effect on aggression . as the nation has sheltered at home , sales of alcohol have skyrocketed , with some sales rising as much as 243 percent . again , this trend mimics past experiences with natural disasters and crises—in the wake of hurricane katrina , alcohol consumption rose sharply . for relationships already marred with violence and abuse , alcohol adds fuel to the fire , particularly when coupled with the isolation and stress discussed above . lack of resourcesfinally , a lack of resources can also contribute to ipv . although most court systems remain open for emergency matters such as granting restraining orders , reports suggest that some of these cases are being delayed . legal services for victims have also been affected , with many legal aid organizations and advocates ( upon which victims heavily rely ) now being forced to work remotely . it is also possible that some judges will be reluctant to hold violent abusers in jail due to the increased risk of covid - 19 infections in state facilities . shelters are facing their own challenges . while shelters typically serve as a safe haven for victims seeking reprieve from abuse , they are now experiencing health concerns and closures due to their often dorm - like , group living arrangements . even when these shelters are able to remain open , victims might be reluctant to expose themselves to high volumes of people in close quarters . fortunately , some shelters are finding creative solutions , such as one shelter in nashville using rvs to house individuals . but many victims—particularly those in densely populated cities experiencing rampant rates of infection—are finding shelters more difficult to access . tying it all togetherprior to the covid - 19 pandemic , instances of ipv were already extremely high . according to the cdc , 1 in 3 women in the united states have experienced ipv . the risks to victims are serious , with cdc data linking ipv to an increased risk of death . unfortunately , one of the most striking findings to come out of research on ipv in the wake of disasters is that , in addition to the rate of abuse increasing , the severity of abuse can increase as well . with gun sales surging , many researchers are concerned that we will see an uptick in domestic homicides when the dust finally settles . it is also important to note that the various factors discussed above are all reciprocal in nature . stress begets and job loss just as much as job loss begets alcohol abuse and stress . the factors underlying ipv are fluid , interrelated , and numerous , which makes ipv that much more difficult to extinguish . today , the covid - 19 pandemic has elicited a perfect storm for ipv by provoking some of the most common factors associated with its occurrence . facebook image : denizo71 / shutterstock
__label__relevant  ' i ' m lucky i ' m alive ' : edmonton woman trapped in u . s . after fleeing violent husband kay bohemier moved from edmonton to the united states because she fell in love with a prisoner , a violent man who promised he could change . now bohemier herself has become a prisoner , hiding out in north carolina from the man she married , desperate to escape horrendous domestic violence and return to canada . broke , frightened and feeling helpless , the former stock car racer has been cut off from family and friends during a pandemic that has made travel far more difficult . she said she won ' t feel safe until she is back home and her husband is back behind bars . " when you come forward , you ' re 10 times more likely to be killed , " bohemier , 49 , told cbc news in an interview . " especially when he ' s as violent as he is . i ' m terrified . " state police say bohemier is a victim of domestic violence , and officers have placed her in a secure location so her husband can ' t find and hurt her . she decided to tell her story to encourage other women to come forward and seek help if they are being abused . in 2018 , bohemier began corresponding with john paul gaddy , 31 , after she saw his profile on the website writeaprisoner . com . at the time , gaddy was serving a nine - year sentence for manslaughter and arson after he beat a man to death with a crowbar in 2010 , then set the victim ' s home on fire . bohemier decided to establish a pen - pal relationship with gaddy . " we wrote back and forth for over a year , " she said . " i trusted him . " she said gaddy told her about all the prison courses he had taken aimed at rehabilitation . she thought he was no longer the angry young man who had killed someone . " i truly believe people can change , " she said . in hindsight , she admitted she chose to ignore or explain away the red flags that might have stopped her from leaving her life in edmonton for what she thought would be a romantic new adventure . " he promised me the world , " said bohemier , who has a university degree in business management and accounting . " he would take care of me . he loved me . i was everything to him . and i believed him . " last september , the mother of five , whose children are mostly grown , quit her job in edmonton as a gravel truck driver and drove down to the united states on a six - month visitor visa . when gaddy was released on parole on sept . 2 , 2019 , she was at the avery - mitchell correctional institution in spruce pine , n . c . , to pick him up . " i thought he had changed , " said bohemier , who admitted she sometimes likes to take chances . the first attack happened in october , she said , when he put his hands around her neck . she went to the hospital because she had neck pain , blurry vision , a headache and was unable to hear out of one ear . but she didn ' t tell the doctor the truth about her injuries . in a medical record provided to cbc news , a doctor wrote of bohemier : " reports that last night she was in a bar in downtown charlotte when she was assaulted when she went to the bathroom . " the doctor said bohemier told him a woman had tried to strangle her and she was punched in the head and had her head slammed against a wall . she was given pain medication and written advice about domestic violence . two weeks later , on nov . 2 , 2019 , gaddy beat her unconscious with a blow to the head while they were in a car , she said . " from what i remember , we were having a disagreement about something and he just snapped . he said he was going to kill me . " john paul gaddy with kay bohemier in november 2019 . not long after he got out of prison . ( supplied by kay bohemier ) though she was covered in blood , gaddy drove to a gas station to fill up the car . while he was out of the car , bohemier took a photo of herself . gaddy was unnerved when he got back in the driver ' s seat because he thought someone had spotted the blood and was going to call 911 . he wanted to rush back home . she wanted to go to the hospital . " and he said no , we can ' t take you to the hospital , " bohemier recalled . " i ' ve got to take you home and clean up the blood because i ' ll be arrested if they see you like this . " police went to their house to check on her welfare . gaddy was nearby , listening . " i was terrified , " she said . " i lied actually and said i got jumped at the gas station . i didn ' t tell them it was him . " bohemier felt like it was easier to lie to the police than to risk gaddy ' s wrath . " the thing that went in my mind was if i tell them , he ' s going to kill me eventually . so i hid it . " bohemier remembered what gaddy had told her during an argument she secretly recorded , after she suggested she was going to call 911 . she provided the recording to cbc news . " don ' t call 911 , because i ' ll kill you and i ' ll kill my - goddamn - self , " gaddy yelled on the tape . " we ' ll look just like somebody on abc news . " ' you know i ' d never hurt you for real ' the abuse continued . bohemier said she packed her bags and tried to leave many times . one time , she said , gaddy tried to strangle her . with her suitcase open on the floor , she again secretly recorded their argument by placing her phone in her bra . kay bohemier shows injuries she suffered in the november 2019 assault . ( kay bohemier ) gaddy clearly sounded agitated when bohemier screamed at him , " you put your hands on me . you grabbed me . " soon there was the sound of her being hit and yelling in pain . she begged him to stop . gaddy tried to calm her down for more than 10 minutes as she cried and hyperventilated . " you know i ' d never hurt you for real , " he said . " i know in my mind not to hurt somebody i love . i ain ' t that stupid . " he apologized and told her he loved her . " i love you , too , " she responded . an expert on domestic violence said studies have shown a victim can leave her partner between seven and 20 times before fleeing for good . " it ' s definitely not the same for each woman and their circumstances are very different , " said esther elder with calgary - based women ' s shelter discovery house . kay bohemier ' s suitcase waiting to be packed as she secretly recorded an argument with john gaddy . ( kay bohemier ) " the cycle of violence often begins with a honeymoon period , when the perpetrator is very charming and very caring , which is then followed by increased coercive control that limits the victim ' s ability to act . that builds to violence , followed by a renewed and shortened honeymoon period . " bohemier said she began to feel like a hostage . " he kept me in the house and wouldn ' t allow me to leave , " she said . " he ' s taken my cellphone , my car keys . i ' m lucky i ' m alive . " she married gaddy in february . " i was in it for the long haul , " she said . " i was determined to make it work . " criminal charges laidwhen the pandemic hit , bohemier said her husband often spent his days in quarantine sharpening a machete . " he had knives all over the house , " she said . " he had knives in the bathroom , he had knives in the kitchen , he had knives in the bedroom . " john paul gaddy on the day he married kay bohemier in february 2020 . ( supplied by kay bohemier ) bohemier began communicating with a canadian women ' s shelter . she tried to come up with a final escape plan . on friday , may 15 , while gaddy was in the shower , she grabbed the car keys and fled for the last time . a few days later , she went to the police to report the november assault . after a six - day investigation , gaddy was charged on the memorial day long weekend with felonious assault , assaulting a woman and assault and battery . he was taken into custody , but inmate records show he was only held for 36 hours . " monday was a holiday , " bohemier said . " they had to release him . they can ' t keep him 48 hours without seeing a judge . so they released him on bond . " police found a safe place for her to stay . a judge issued a one - week restraining order . gaddy remains free on probation from his 2010 manslaughter conviction and wears an electronic monitor . bohemier can ' t understand why he hasn ' t been taken back into custody , given the new charges he now faces . elder said bohemier ' s situation is dangerous . " she has a right to feel the way that she is feeling , " she said . " when a woman initially leaves , she is at the greatest risk of homicide . " mother ' s day card john gaddy gave to kay bohemier in may 2020 . she left him five days later . ( supplied by kay bohemier ) in canada , a woman is killed every six days by a current or former intimate partner . elder said during the pandemic , domestic violence has increased in both severity and frequency . bohemier wants to return to canada , but has no money and no source of income . a canadian friend has started a gofundme campaign on her behalf . crossing the border will be more complicated because of the pandemic . " i ' ve contacted the canadian embassy to find out if they ' ll let me back , " bohemier said . " i ' ve got to come armed with all the police reports , my medical records and everything when i get to the borders . " she would also have to provide a two - week quarantine plan . all the while fearing what her husband might do if he finds her . " i ' m happy that i finally came forward and told my story for the first time , because i ' m the victim , " she said . " i did not deserve that . " 
__label__relevant woman who shared story of domestic violence has encouraging words for others this story is part of stopping domestic violence , a cbc news series looking at the crisis of intimate partner violence in canada and what can be done to end it . melissa gulliver broke down in tears when she heard her abuser was in custody , more than nine months after a warrant was issued for his arrest . it was a moment she believed might never happen . " now there is actually going to be an end to it . there will be a point where i receive the email from my [victim services] co - ordinator and it will say , ' it ' s over , ' and that feeling is like winning the lotto . it is surreal , " gulliver told cbc news . the power of speaking out tells me that when people are educated and aware of what is happening they continue the conversation you started . - melissa gullivergulliver , who is from st . john ' s , spoke publicly of the assault she suffered at the hands of her former partner , ashton kennedy , 26 , and the subsequent court process , which ended with a warrant for his arrest . the day after her story aired on cbc news , kennedy turned himself in to royal newfoundland constabulary headquarters in st . john ' s . he will remain in custody until at least tuesday . he ' s been charged with assault , failure to comply with probation , failure to attend court , and three counts of failing to comply with an undertaking . ashton kennedy , 26 , poses for a photo with his dog . ( ashton kennedy / facebook ) " going public with my domestic violence experience showed me that people care , that you are not alone , and asking for help is not a sign of weakness but a sign of strength because you are taking back your control through using your voice in the silence , " gulliver said . " the power of speaking out tells me that when people are educated and aware of what is happening they continue the conversation you started , they come together and support you and the abuser can no longer hide and twist the truth in their favour . " gaining confidence and strengthkennedy assaulted gulliver in their shared apartment in december 2018 . police later told gulliver that kennedy had already been convicted of assaulting another woman , from a previous relationship . he pleaded guilty to the assault against gulliver , went to family violence intervention court , then stopped showing up . gulliver said the result has left her feeling empowered , and she hopes others will feel empowered , too , to take first steps like planning to leave or speaking out . " when you do you will feel so freeing that you will run with that and gain more confidence and strength as you go forward , " she said . " remember this is your journey , this is your process , you are not a victim of domestic violence — you are a survivor . you are surviving now and you will continue to survive . i am here for you , and there is a whole community of us ready for you . " read more from cbc newfoundland and labrador
__label__relevant  ' barriers ' in canada ' s legal system complicating fight to end domestic violence this story is part of stopping domestic violence , a cbc news series looking at the crisis of intimate partner violence in canada and what can be done to end it . intimate partner violence makes up nearly one - third of all police - reported violent crime in this country , according to statistics canada , and many victims say that the legal system is complicating efforts to change this . " susan " knows this all too well . in fact , she lives in so much fear of her ex - husband that cbc news is not revealing her identity or location . while they were married , susan ' s husband assaulted her , strangled her and threatened to kill her . although he was eventually found guilty of one charge of assault , he managed to drag out their divorce , and in the end , susan walked away so financially devastated that she had to file for bankruptcy . she said her journey through the canadian legal system was so traumatic she regrets even reporting the abuse . " if i could go back , i don ' t think i would have done this , " susan said . " i would have tried to blame myself and not say the truth about what happened . i don ' t think i would go through it again . " legal experts say stories like this show how canada ' s laws governing intimate partner violence are making life more difficult for victims . part of the reason for that is there are sometimes conflicting definitions of domestic violence , and the jurisdiction for trying to rein in the problem is divided in and can differ from province to province . " it ' s those kinds of conflicts that i think show that governments in canada don ' t have an overarching strategy to deal with family violence , " said jennifer koshan , a university of calgary law professor . " it means that we may be creating barriers to victims . " ' i was pretty terrified ' susan said communication failures , staffing issues and a lack of clarity within the legal system put her at risk at a time when she was extremely vulnerable . for example , she said a police officer gave her his number after she had been assaulted , but when she called , he didn ' t answer and his voicemail wasn ' t set up . it also took months for her ex ' s probation officer to check in with her . perhaps most crucially , she didn ' t learn until it was too late that her ex had successfully petitioned the court to lift her restraining order against him . " i received a call from my victims support worker , who asked me if i was somewhere safe , " susan said . " she seemed very stressed , almost panicked , and i asked her what was going on . " jennifer koshan , a university of calgary law professor , said the country ' s legal system may be ' creating barriers ' for victims of domestic abuse . ( cbc ) the worker told her that earlier that day , her husband appeared before a judge and successfully applied to have his probation and restraining order lifted . the worker told her it would expire in four days . " i was pretty terrified , " susan said . koshan and a team of law professors from across the country are mapping out all the laws and policies that govern domestic and intimate partner violence , and have discovered inconsistencies not just between provinces and territories but within the same jurisdiction . different jurisdictionsmost intimate partner violence offences are handled through the criminal code , but it ' s not cut - and - dried . " this may surprise some people , but we don ' t have a specific offence in our criminal code related to intimate partner violence , " said koshan . complicating this is the fact that domestic violence can consist of a variety of behaviours , from emotional abuse to withholding money , and some of these cross jurisdictional boundaries . " in alberta , for instance , emotional abuse and financial abuse are not included in the protection against family violence act , which allows victims to get protection orders , " said koshan . both forms of abuse are , however , included under the province ' s residential tenancy act and the employment standards act so that victims can leave their tenancies early if they suffer emotional abuse . in order to prove domestic violence , a tenant has to get a protection order , but in alberta , victims can ' t get protection orders for emotional abuse . koshan said all levels of government have to come together to close the gaps in the legal system . she said not only are the laws a patchwork from coast to coast , so are the services that go along with them . some jurisdictions have specialized domestic violence police forces and some have specialized domestic violence courts . in addition to making sure all courts are in sync , she said the government needs to monitor those laws to see how well they are working in practice . no specific federal actlast year , canada beefed up the criminal code to better deal with intimate partner violence . bill c - 75 made it clear that strangulation was an elevated form of assault and allowed judges to consider a higher maximum penalty for offenders who had past convictions of ipv . koshan said those changes didn ' t go far enough , and thinks canada should follow the lead of some u . k . countries . in 2015 , england and wales added a specific intimate partner offense to their criminal codes to help police identify patterns of psychological abuse and coercive control . according to statistics canada , almost four - fifths ( 79 per cent ) of victims of police - reported intimate partner violence ( ipv ) in 2018 were women . although canada launched a national strategy to combat gender - based violence in 2017 , it doesn ' t have a have a specific federal act , like the u . s . , that addresses violence against women . shelley johnson cline with the st . paul intervention project said that in tandem with law enforcement , ' we will always work together for what ' s best for victims . ' ( cbc ) in 1994 , u . s . president bill clinton signed the violence against women act ( vawa ) into law . it criminalized some aspects of domestic violence across state lines , and unleashed renewable funding for training for law enforcement research for programs . it also mandated that protection orders issued in one state had to be enforced nationwide . shelley johnson cline with the st . paul intervention project in minnesota , a domestic violence advocacy and shelter organization , said the u . s . act was a game - changer . " it allowed the resources for us to try something different , " said johnson cline , whose organization receives vawa funding . " it ' s about collaboration . it ' s about pairing together the justice system , the grassroots [to] better women ' s programs and to center around the victim and the victim ' s safety . and [the act] gives you the resources to do that … to try something different . " according to numbers from the white house , in the first 15 years of the act ' s existence , annual domestic violence rates dropped by 64 per cent . johnson cline said vawa forced the country to recognize intimate partner violence as a national issue . " i know in the united states it ' s happening to one out of every four females , " johnson cline said . " that is an epidemic to me . " ' everything is on the table ' like many people fleeing domestic violence , susan moved to another community . she supports the idea of a national act in canada that addresses intimate partner violence . " maybe if it was all consolidated into one larger initiative … there could be some type of political will to really tackle this , " she said . " if you ask anyone who ' s worked in the field or who ' s been an advocate for people navigating the system , you know their consensus is that there have been no improvements over the last 30 years . " she also warns that any legal change won ' t mean anything if the resources aren ' t there to make sure they are enforced . maryam monsef , the federal minister for women and gender equality , said she isn ' t opposed to the idea of a national act . maryam monsef , the federal minister for women and gender equality , said the government will provide up to $50 million to women ' s shelters and sexual assault centres to help with their capacity to manage or prevent an outbreak in their facilities . ( cbc ) " this is all part of the conversation right now . everything is on the table right now , " monsef said . " gender - based violence , intimate partner violence is preventable . it ' s costing us way too much and we can do better — we can be better . " monsef said she is committed to working with her counterparts across canada and said the government will be seeking " feedback from canadians " on the way forward . " when it comes to gender - based violence , be it online violence , human trafficking , intimate partner violence or missing and murdered indigenous women and girls , we are on the same page and we have to move forward together . " additional reporting by sylvene gilchristif you need help and are in immediate danger , call 911 . to find assistance in your area click here . to read all the stories in cbc ' s stopping domestic violence series , visit cbc . ca / stoppingdomesticviolence
__label__no_relevant armed man seizes bus , holds 10 people hostage in ukraine lutsk , ukraine - - an armed man seized a long - distance bus and took people in it hostage in northwestern ukraine on tuesday launching an hours - long standoff with police , ukrainian authorities said . about 10 people are currently being held hostage , ukraine ' s security service said in a facebook statement . police earlier had put the number at 20 . it was unclear how many people had been on board to start with , and whether any escaped . police sealed off the centre of lutsk , a city 400 kilometres ( 250 miles ) west of the capital kyiv . the assailant is armed and carrying explosives , police said . they said he threw a hand grenade that failed to explode at officers and shot at them at least twice during the still - ongoing siege . ukrainian president volodymyr zelenskiy said negotiations with the man are currently underway . " we ' re doing everything to free the hostages , " zelenskiy told reporters . the man called the police himself at 9 : 25 a . m . ( 0625 gmt ) after taking control of the bus and introduced himself as maksim plokhoy , deputy interior minister anton gerashchenko said on facebook . in a telegram account reportedly belonging to him , plokhoy apparently admitted to taking people on the bus hostage , said that " the state has always been and always is the first terrorist " and demanded that top ukrainian officials release statements on their social media pages calling themselves terrorists . according to gerashchenko , police have identified the man as maksim krivosh , a 44 - year - old ukrainian born in russia . krivosh had allegedly been convicted twice on a wide range of charges - - robbery , fraud , illegal arms handling - - and spent a total of 10 years behind bars . interior minister arsen avakov travelled to lutsk to supervise operations . ukrainian media reported that gunshots were regularly heard at the scene . it wasn ' t immediately clear whether anyone has been injured . according to reports , krivosh tried to reach out to journalists through hostages and their phones , demanding that they spread the word about his demands and get more reporters to arrive to the scene . zelenskiy said earlier on tuesday he is personally monitoring the situation . 
__label__no_relevant women fall behind in pandemic recovery due to childcare needs , job availability stephanie laubenstein somehow balanced full - time work , parenting and teaching during a pandemic — all while her dog ( sort of ) ate her son ' s homework . her nine - year - old , benjamin , made the discovery one day , and it wasn ' t like those fabricated excuses teachers have dismissed for years . " he ' d come bellowing into my [home] office in the middle of a call and say , ' mom , the dog ate my underwear , ' " laubenstein said , smiling at the memory . " fortunately the people on the video conference would laugh and let me go deal with the situation and come back . " i ' m hoping everybody is afforded that flexibility and compassion , because it can be hard , " laubenstein said of handling work and parenting simultaneously . women more affectedwhile parents coped with the closures of schools , daycares and their workplaces when the covid - 19 threat was surging , it is clear women faced a disproportionate impact . after all , women have traditionally handled the majority of parenting duties , and hold low - paying service jobs more vulnerable to the whims of pandemic - induced closures , said susan prentice , university of manitoba sociology professor . women are lagging behind , even as the economy sputters back , " both because the jobs aren ' t available , and because somebody has to mind the kids , " prentice said . " very often in a two - parent family , people sit down and they get out a pen and they look at who ' s going to make more money and who wants to stay home , " she said . " very often this means that a mother is less likely to go back to work . " the gender gap is widening and the pandemic is exacerbating it , prentice said . laubenstein spent many days travelling as director of sales and business development at new flyer . when the pandemic hit manitoba , she was grounded in winnipeg . before long , her son was homebound too , since his school and daycare closed . her son didn ' t go to his father ' s place , since the family worried of benjamin ' s exposure to covid - 19 ( he ' s high - risk ) and his father works with the public . " all of a sudden i became a full - time mom , a full - time businesswoman and a full - time teacher , and it became really hard to balance all of those requirements , " she said . ' you just cannot do all of it ' stephanie laubenstein ' s son benjamin shows visitors some of the flips he can do on the trampoline . ( ian froese / cbc ) eventually , she could call upon her parents once stay - at - home orders eased , and her son could go back to his father ' s place . she got counselling help and said her child - care spot will reopen soon . as for unprompted office interruptions , her son doesn ' t say a peep to his mother anymore — he grabs her old phone and sends her text messages instead . " one of the keys , " his mother said , is " you have to realize you just cannot do all of it . " the economic downturn has been called a " she - cession , " since women are significantly exiting the workforce due to lost jobs and inadequate child care . in manitoba , nearly 11 , 000 fewer women were working full - time in the labour force this june than the previous june , a 8 . 1 per cent decrease , according to statistics canada . the unemployment rate for women over the age of 25 , which was 10 . 3 per cent in may , was virtually on par with men at 8 . 3 per cent in june , but that doesn ' t account for women who exited the workforce altogether , prentice said . susan prentice , sociology professor at the university of manitoba , said the pandemic has made evident the worsening gender gap . she hopes political leaders work to address it . ( jaison empson / cbc ) she said a major expansion in child - care spaces would address this inequity . she said one space for every five manitoba kids isn ' t sufficient . prentice hopes the pandemic will spur decision - makers to rectify the deficiency . " i think that many political leaders didn ' t have to think about how much child care was essential in order for the economy to function — and now they do . " calls for higher wages , more sick dayswomen predominantly make up the workforce in the food and hospitality industries , which were hit hard by the covid - 19 pandemic . ( lyzaville sale / cbc ) lynne fernandez , errol black chair in labour issues at the canadian centre of policy alternatives , is calling for higher wages and more sick days for the jobs our society is finally starting to respect , such as grocery clerks and cleaners . until then , she said , men are moving into jobs women held . " if this goes on for a long time , there ' s actually some real worries about how the long - term effects of women in the labour market could be . " the pandemic also challenged women in professional , stable jobs . celia valel decided to alternate days at home with her husband during the pandemic in order to ensure that at least one of the parents was home to provide child care . ( john einarson / cbc ) celia valel and her husband alternated days at work , stretching into weekends . when it was her turn , she logged 12 - hour plus days , and then did as much work as possible on her off days while caring for three kids under the age of nine . " i would often not see my kids when they woke up and didn ' t see them before they went to bed either . " it got to the point where it wasn ' t sustainable for herself or her husband , valel said . " it was just such a prolonged time and not seeing the end , i think it was very demoralizing . " thankfully , she said child - care spaces came together recently , but she feels uncertain looking ahead . she doesn ' t know how the fall will look , whether in - person classes will fully return , and if a second wave of covid - 19 could unwind the progress being made . 
__label__relevant inuit region of arctic quebec receives $100 , 000 for activities to commemorate victims of gender violence canada ’ s federal government announced $100 , 000 this month to facilitate activities in the inuit region of arctic quebec to commemorate victims of gender violence . “ this investment from the federal government will help support a crucial part of the healing process for our communities in nunavik , ” said maata putugu , director of social services at the inuulitsivik health centre , in a news release announcing the funding . “ we must remember and honour indigenous women , girls , and lgbtq and two - spirit people who are missing or have been murdered . they have been tragically taken from their families , friends and communities , and it is our hope that in remembering them , we can help stop the cycle of violence . ” the money , announced on july 13 , comes from a $13 million commemoration fund set up to honour missing and murdered indigenous women and girls , as well as lgtbq and two - spirit people . the fund was set up in 2018 after a 2017 interim report from canada ’ s national inquiry into missing and murdered indigenous women and girls made the recommendation . the money for nunavik , the inuit region of arctic quebec , will go to funding to on - the - land programs as well as a memorial . “ awareness and healing ” part of the funding will go towards two separate on - the - land programs this summer , one in puvirnituq and one in inukjuak . both will last four days . on each trip , 10 women who are friends or family of missing or murdered women will go out on the land for four days . they will be accompanied by people like elders , with the goal of each trip to address violence against indigenous women , to empower inuit women and to support healing . “ we spoke to elders and community members about who might like to participate , ” emilie desrosiers , who works in prevention and promotion and social services at the inuulitsivik health centre in puvirnituq , said in a phone interview . the inukjuak trip will leave on july 24 . the puvirnituq trip is scheduled for august 21 . memorial carvingthe rest of the money will go towards a memorial carving . a contest will be held between carvers in inukjuak and puvnirnituq to create a design . a commitee will vote on the winning art . the memorial carving will be placed in the community who submitted the chosen entry , likely in the fall . nunavik has a population of approximately 13 , 000 people , with 14 communities in the region . inquiry background canada ’ s national inquiry into missing and murdered indigenous women and girls ( mmwig ) was announced by prime minister justin trudeau in 2015 after calls from many indigenous leaders , groups and organisations to examine the high rates of violence against indigenous women in canada . at the time , indigenous women made up 4 per cent of canada ’ s female population , but 16 per cent of all women murdered in canada between 1980 and 2012 were indigenous , the government said . the inquiry ’ s mandate was to examine and report on the systemic causes of violence against indigenous women and girls as well as how investigations are conducted by authorities . the inquiry also examined violence against the 2slgbtqqia ( two - spirit , lesbian , gay , bisexual , transgender , queer , questioning , intersex and asexual ) community . write to eilís quinn at eilis . quinn ( at ) cbc . carelated stories from around the north : canada : delay on gender violence action plan a “ disappointment , ” says canadian inuit women ’ s org , eye on the arcticfinland : swedish - speaking finnish women launch their own #metoo campaign , yle newsunited states : alaska reckons with missing data on murdered indigenous women , alaska public media
__label__relevant could canada ' s worst mass shooting have been avoided ? image copyright getty imagesthree months after a gunman posing as a police officer went on a rampage across the province of nova scotia , questions still remain about canada ' s deadliest mass shooting , and why the royal canadian mounted police couldn ' t stop it . when police arrived at the first crime scene at 10 : 36pm on 18 april , in a quiet cul - de - sac in the the seaside community of portapique , they found a bloodbath . several bodies were strewn in the street and buildings were on fire . over the course of the next few days , police would find 13 victims across seven different locations in that single neighbourhood . " nobody really understands . everybody knows it was an unimaginable thing that happened there , " tom taggart , a local politician in portapique , told the bbc . " you can ' t visualise . you couldn ' t possibly understand what it was like there that night . " an hour later , rcmp tweeted they were investigating a " firearms complaint " in portapique and that people in the area should lock their doors and stay inside . it would take eight hours before they sent another tweet , and another two after that for police to tell the public that the gunman was wearing a police uniform and driving a police cruiser . at 11 : 26am , police caught up with the gunman , gabriel wortman , at a petrol station 95km ( 59 miles ) south of where his crime spree began . he died in a shootout with police . over the course of that evening and early morning , wortman would kill a total of 22 victims , including two frontline healthcare workers , a primary school teacher and rcmp constable heidi stevenson , a 23 - year veteran of the rcmp and mother of two . all were adults , except for 17 - year - old emily tuck , who was killed alongside her two parents . the complexities of the case meant that it took several days to identify all the victims , and several more before the police could release a timeline . from the outset , people have demanded an inquiry into the rcmp ' s response to the shooting . " i desperately want to know what led to this . and that ' s what the inquiry needs to be and it should be happening now , " mr taggart said . why didn ' t the rcmp send out an emergency alert as early as saturday evening ? why did they only alert the public that wortman was impersonating an officer the following morning , hours after a witness told him he was driving a police cruiser ? how did he get access to a decommissioned police cruiser in the first place ? how did he amass a collection of illegal weapons from the us ? image copyright facebook / handout image caption victims of canada ' s largest mass shooting " we need answers to heal , we need answers so we can find a way to live in this new normal that we ' ve been forced into , " wrote the daughter of one of his victims , heather o ' brien , in a letter published on facebook on 31 may . darker questions have also emerged , such as why police ignored reports of the gunman ' s violent behaviour towards women , or why they ignored warnings he was amassing an arsenal and wanted to " kill a cop " , and how he was able to liquidate c$475 , 000 ( $350 , 000 , £279 , 000 ) from his account in a single transaction . officials keep promising an inquiry is forthcoming , but so far it hasn ' t materialised . nova scotia justice minister mark furey declined an interview , but a ministry spokesperson said this : " we recognise canadians are looking for , and deserve , answers about the tragic events that happened in april . the nova scotia department of justice is actively engaged with the federal government on this matter and an announcement is forthcoming . we are committed to ensuring we take the necessary steps to support victims and families as we move toward an announcement . " in the absence of an inquiry , several legal cases have emerged . image copyright getty images image caption the gunman was a denturist with a clinic in dartmouth , nova scotiamembers of the media are going to court to release documents about the investigation . wortman ' s victims and their families have filed a class - action lawsuit against his estate , and another class - action lawsuit has been filed against the rcmp , the federal attorney general and the attorney general of nova scotia . " we will review and consider any such claim once served . we do not anticipate having any further comment on this matter . our primary focus continues to be on the ongoing criminal investigation , and supporting the victims of this tragedy as well as our members and employees , " rcmp spokesperson corporal jennifer clarke said in a statement . mrs o ' brien ' s husband , andrew o ' brien , is one of two named plaintiffs in the case against the rcmp . the class - action lawsuit has not been certified by the courts yet , a procedure that can take up to a year . the lawsuit alleges the rcmp " breached the standard of care expected of them " and behaved in a " high - handed , self - serving and disrespectful manner " to victims and their family during the course of their investigation , which is ongoing . this " disrespectful manner " is illustrated in one of the lawsuit ' s most shocking claims , that the rcmp released a vehicle containing bullet casings and body parts back to the family member of a victim . cpl clarke told the bbc exhibits are usually returned in the condition that they were found in . one of the biggest questions left unanswered is what the rcmp knew about wortman before the shooting . an explosive investigation by maclean ' s magazine revealed that wortman received a large cash withdrawal from a brinks depot estimated at about c$475 , 000 on 30 march . maclean ' s quotes sources who say the transaction was consistent with the kind the rcmp would use in a pay - out to a police informant . image copyright reuters image caption the decommissioned patrol car driven by wortman was bought at auctionthe rcmp deny the police force was a source of his money , and have said they believe wortman was concerned it would not be safe in a bank , possibly because of coronavirus . a financial audit is taking place as part of their investigation . " the rcmp was not the source of those funds , as has incorrectly been assumed in some recent media articles , " cpl clarke said in an email . but the maclean ' s report has planted seeds of doubt amongst the community , who wonder if the police turned a blind eye to some of the gunman ' s previous behaviour . " if the rcmp allowed somebody that volatile to live amongst innocent people , then somebody needs to be looking for work , " mr taggart says . although wortman didn ' t have a criminal record , he was known to the police . he was charged with assaulting another man in 2001 , and pleaded guilty . he received a conditional discharge , which meant he did not go to jail and his record was clean . he was also frequently involved in civil disputes ; in two cases , including one involving his uncle , people claimed he tried to swindle them out of property , according to global news canada . in 2011 , a police bulletin was sent out a warning that wortman wanted to " kill a cop " and that he had a stash of guns . the bulletin , which was obtained by cbc news and confirmed by the rcmp , was released after an anonymous tip to truro police . halifax regional police investigated , but determined that the guns were stored in his cottage in portapique , which is under the jurisdiction of the rcmp , the cbc reported . an rcmp spokesperson told bbc news that police bulletins were typically wiped from the records after two years and the bulletin on wortman was not accessible to police during april ' s rampage . " investigators continue to look into the gunman ' s previous behaviours and interactions , including those with police , " cpl clarke said in an email . two years after the police bulletin , his neighbour brenda forbes says she told the rcmp he was beating his girlfriend , and that she had seen illegal weapons on his property . she told her story to various media after the shooting . she says she had been wary of the gunman for years before she reported him to police . in about 2005 , a year after the gunman moved next door , his girlfriend had run to ms forbes ' door , afraid he was going to kill her . ms forbes says she tried to convince her to leave him , but she could not . she says the rcmp did not follow up , and nothing was done . the rcmp confirmed they received a complaint from a neighbour in 2013 , but that the file has since been purged . " from the officer ' s notes there is no indication of abuse or weapons but there is mention of names of the alleged involved parties , including the gunman , " cpl clarke said in an email . that same girlfriend was wortman ' s first victim , the night before he went on the shooting spree . she survived by hiding in the woods , and had since become a key witness in the rcmp investigation . the rcmp has called her assault significant , and said it " could very well have been a catalyst " for the subsequent murders . after the shooting , ms forbes told her story to linda macdonald and jeanne sarson , co - founders of persons against non - state torture , a local organisation working to end domestic violence around the globe . they say the police failure to take ms forbes seriously was because of implicit misogyny that made them ignore reports of domestic violence . " it disappointed me , that the rcmp would dismiss such serious allegations . it left me feeling if something had been done a long time ago we wouldn ' t be at this place now , " ms macdonald told the bbc . ms macdonald believes that violence against women is often a warning sign of future violent behaviour . a recent analysis by bloomberg of 2 , 358 mass shootings of four or more victims in the us by reuters found that 60% of the perpetrators had a history of domestic violence . " if they had acted earlier , my feeling is there would have been a prevention , " she says . ms macdonald and ms sarson have called for a public inquiry " with a feminist lens " , gathering nearly 8 , 000 signatures in a petition submitted monday . " the mass murders in nova scotia were not ' senseless . ' they were predictable , " the petition reads . ms macdonald is especially concerned because mr furey , the provincial justice minister , has gone on the record saying the province is working on a " restorative " justice approach . image copyright reuters image caption a photograph of kristen beaton , one of wortman ' s victims , at a memorial in deberta restorative justice inquiry is an approach sometimes recommended when all sides agree one party has been wronged . usually the wronged party is given a chance to talk about how they were harmed , and the party responsible makes amends . it often happens outside the court system , often behind closed doors . " it really needs to be public - there ' s nothing restorative when we make the horror in our communities silent , " ms macdonald said . mr taggart , the local politician from portapique , is not in favour of an inquiry that only focuses on feminism . " the guy was a misogynist bastard . . . the way he treated women can be part of this inquiry , but it should not lead this inquiry , " he said . and he ' s not in favour of an inquiry that only looks at the tragedy in his own community - that would just re - traumatise people , he says . what he does want is for the rcmp to answer his nagging questions about why wortman was never investigated for weapons offences , and how he got away after the massacre in portapique . " the rcmp , i believe , needs to answer questions , under oath and before a judge , " he says . 
__label__relevant how to protect workers from domestic violence during a pandemic - ohs canada magazine one unfortunate consequence of the covid - 19 pandemic is a global increase in reports of domestic violence . this increase may be linked to stress and more frequent family interactions due to more time spent at home . with many employees now working from home , employers must be wary of the risks remote working poses and of their obligations to employees under the law . in canada , occupational health and safety legislation applies to remote workplaces in the same way it applies to an employer ’ s traditional workplace — such as an office or factory . advertismentemployers still have certain health and safety obligations to employees even if they are working from their own homes . employers are expected to take steps to ensure employees are safe in their home working environment , the same way they would in their regular workplace , says tracey harvie , a health and safety expert at peninsula canada , a human resources consultancy in toronto . this involves taking preventative measures and implementing procedures if employers suspect or are informed that an employee is experiencing domestic violence . obligations for employersconcerning employer obligations and domestic violence in the workplace , some provinces are more specific than others , says harvie . “ different jurisdictions have different requirements ; however , employers are generally required to take all reasonable precautions to protect their workers from illness and injury . ” some provinces and territories require employers to have workplace violence and harassment policies and programs , and these can extend to cover domestic violence in the workplace , she says . “ for example , ontario ’ s legislation does consider that domestic violence might spill into the workplace . this means that when considering their employees ’ safety when working from home , they must also consider whether they are safe from domestic violence , ” says harvie . safeguarding against violenceemployers should have a workplace violence prevention policy and program that addresses domestic violence in the workplace , she says . in some provinces , this is a legal requirement . the policy and program should include instructions for how employees can confidentially report domestic violence in the workplace , how employers will respond to incidents , domestic violence resources and a workplace safety plan , among other elements . while anyone can be a victim of domestic violence , in canada , victims are overwhelmingly women . “ virtual team meetings and individual meetings are a good way to establish welfare checks with employees who are working remotely , ” says harvie . “ it may be necessary to establish a higher - than - average frequency of such checks with your employee if you are aware or suspect they may be in a volatile domestic situation . ” protecting employeesall provinces allow eligible employees to take job - protected leave for reasons related to domestic or sexual violence . to ensure employees are able to take this time off , employers may go beyond their minimum provincial standards and provide pay for the duration of the leave or a portion of it if this is not already a requirement . the details of domestic or sexual violence leave , such as duration and eligibility criteria , vary by province . employers may also extend employees ’ leave of absence if this is necessary and offer workplace relocation options where possible . “ employers should be ready to respond to workers ’ concerns on a case - by - case basis , as every situation calls for a unique approach , ” says harvie . “ remote workers should be encouraged to voice their concerns to management and systems should be in place for reporting incidents and summoning immediate assistance . ” earlier this month , prime minister justin trudeau announced a $40 - million government contribution towards women and gender equality canada , part of which will go to women ’ s shelters and sexual assault centres around the country . kristina vassilieva is an hr writer for peninsula canada in toronto . 
__label__relevant are you experiencing abuse ? here ’ s how to get help if you or someone you know is in crisis and needs help , resources are available . in case of an emergency , please call 911 for immediate assistance . for a more comprehensive list of resources , click here . to be a woman in canada means living with risk — to live knowing that , on average , a woman is killed every other day , that once a week a woman is murdered by her partner and that one in three women will experience some form of sexual violence over the course of their lives . as familiar as violence is for many women , it can still be hard to identify or understand when a relationship or interaction is abusive , says amina doreh , public education co - ordinator at the sexual assault support centre in ottawa , especially “ if you come from a cycle of abuse or a household where this was normalized . ” story continues below advertisementand yet , no matter how difficult it is to push past that condition , doreh doesn ’ t want shame to keep women from reaching out when they need help . “ you ’ re worthy of seeking help… you ’ re not a burden to people . ” tweet thishow to recognize if you ’ re in an abusive situationthe first major step to getting help , no matter the scenario , is identifying that you ’ ve been the victim of abuse or harassment . once you are aware , you can make a safety plan . there ’ s often hesitancy to connect with a support network , as survivors are made to feel isolated by an abuser , doreh says , so making that connection with someone is the best way to end violence at home . ultimately , she says , “ trust your instincts . ” doreh and other experts who spend every day helping women leave violent situations share their best advice and resources for finding a way to leave safely . get help : what do i do if i ’ m experiencing violence at home ? what if there are kids involved ? women are the primary victims of family violence , as 67 per cent of those harmed by abuse at home are women , according to 2016 data from statistics canada . they are also four times more likely to be killed by a partner than men . story continues below advertisementhowever , a true snapshot of familial violence across canada is hard to provide , as it ’ s chronically under - reported — only one in five people report spousal abuse to the police , according to 2014 figures . and while women ’ s experiences may be unique , there are commonalities , too : they feel trapped , cut off from help and ashamed to tell family and friends what ’ s happening . they don ’ t always feel comfortable trusting police . pushpa rama , a crisis counsellor at the assaulted women ’ s helpline in toronto , helps women create a safety plan to leave their abusers that ’ s tailored to their specific circumstances . she says it ’ s important to gather information first by connecting with support hotlines , shelters and legal aid to create an action plan to safely leave in conjunction with trusted family and friends , rama says . if you ’ re trying to leave with kids — as nearly half of women admitted to shelters for domestic violence reasons are — rama says it ’ s really important to talk to them . women will often try to hide abuse from their kids , rama says , but they shouldn ’ t , as children are perceptive and will know something is wrong . “ tell them it ’ s not their fault , and that it ’ s not ( your ) fault , ” she says . story continues below advertisementyou should tell your kids who to contact if they need help and how to get to a safe place , even within their own house , rama says . she suggests creating a code word with your children so they know right away if they need to call the police . get help : what if my partner has control of my finances or my technology ? financial abuse is a common tactic used to discourage women from leaving their abusers . it includes things like controlling how money is spent , withholding funds , not allowing a partner to work and even outright stealing a partner ’ s money . creating forced dependence on the partner may make it seem like you are trapped , rama says , but you can still make a plan for escape : put money aside secretly with your social insurance cards , passports and any other important documents and keep them hidden somewhere near your exit . “ sometimes , we encourage ( women ) to put money in sanitary pads . ” tweet thisif you can ’ t secretly save money and you don ’ t have a network of family and friends to support you , there are hotlines and shelters that can provide you with legal help and other aid so you can rebuild your finances . story continues below advertisementif you ’ re worried your partner is tracking you with in - home security cameras , internet or phone monitoring , a car gps , password controls or even the thermometer , rama says there are options . she recommends erasing your browsing history , deleting texts and even creating social media profiles that don ’ t use your real name so you can get help without alerting your abuser . get help : legal aid domestic abuse hotlinephone : 1 - 800 - 668 - 8258getting help as a woman of colourfor women of colour , dealing with racism entwined with sexism can make accessing certain resources more difficult , says andrea gunraj , vice - president of public engagement at the canadian women ’ s foundation . “ ( women ) speak to wanting the abuse to stop but not wanting their partners to face discrimination from authorities , ” she says . for many women of colour , guraj says connection to community is important , especially for those who are new to canada and rely on those connections to navigate life here . leaving a partner , even one who is abusive , could mean losing that network . “ ( these ) communities are really small and close - knit . everybody will know everybody , ” gunraj says . “ if you leave , it ’ s like you can ’ t do it anonymously . ” story continues below advertisementthat risk of further isolation is compounded by the fact that mainstream services don ’ t always provide help in different languages or in a manner that is culturally appropriate , gunraj says . get help : violence against transgender and non - binary peopletransgender people are almost twice as likely as cisgender women to experience domestic violence , according to the public health agency of canada . one - fifth of trans people in ontario have reported being physically or sexually assaulted because of their identity , while another 34 per cent report having been harassed , according to 2010 data from trans pulse , a community research initiative . but national data still fails to fully capture the reality of violence against trans and non - binary people — a gap that ’ s been highly criticized by community groups and academics . despite that vacuum , trans people continue to document the ways in which they are rejected by the shelter system , separated by gender and classified based on how staff perceive them . that problem is particularly concerning given more than one - quarter of trans youth report running away from home and more than half say they can ’ t afford housing — meaning shelter space is desperately needed . story continues below advertisementget help : what if someone is harassing me at work ? workplace harassment in canada includes any inappropriate behaviour that demeans , belittles or threatens a person in a workspace . that means everything from unwelcome sexual advances to humiliating someone in a workplace setting . if you ’ re not sure you ’ re being harassed , doreh says the best way to determine is to ask how the behaviour is making you feel . “ women are socialized to ‘take it ’ or continue to work or move on despite some of the alarm bells or red flags that they are feeling internally . ” tweet thisconnect with someone you trust , who you believe can support you if you decide to bring the issue to your human resources department or any other department that ’ s tasked with dealing with harassment . knowing who in the workplace bears direct responsibility for making decisions on harassment matters is key , doreh says , but it ’ s equally as important to find people you trust outside of work — whether they are friends , family , a therapist or a helpline — who can support you emotionally . that process often isn ’ t easy . “ it can feel very isolating , ” doreh says . “ after you leave work , these things still affect you . ” story continues below advertisementget help : 5 : 07 how natalia jimenez survived an attempted murder how natalia jimenez survived an attempted murderresources by provincebritish columbiaalbertafamily violence info line ( toll - free , 24 - 7 , multilingual ) phone : 780 - 310 - 1818 ( toll - free , 24 - 7 , multilingual ) alberta council of women ’ s sheltersphone : 1 - 866 - 331 - 3933camrose women ’ s shelter societyphone : 780 - 672 - 1035 ( main line ) toll - free crisis line : 1 - 877 - 672 - 1010sucker creek women ’ s emergency shelterphone : 780 - 523 - 2929crisis line : 780 - 523 - 4357toll - free : 1 - 866 - 523 - 2929saskatchewan24 - hour crisis and abuse linephone : 1 - 800 - 214 - 7083abused women ’ s crisis linephone : 1 - 888 - 338 - 0880north east crisis linephone : 1 - 800 - 611 - 6349 or 1 - 800 - 668 - 6868prince albert domestic violence crisis interventioncrisis line : 306 - 764 - 1011provincial association of transition houses and services of saskatchewanmanitobaontarioquebecnova scotianew brunswickfredericton sexual assault crisis centrephone : 1 - 506 - 454 - 0437email : fsacc@nb . aibn . comnew brunswick victim ’ s servicescrossroads for women inc . , monctonphone : 506 - 857 - 8028domestic violence outreach , saint johnphone : 506 - 632 - 5616 or 506 - 649 - 2580newfoundlandhope haven transition house crisis linecrisis line : 709 - 944 - 6900toll - free : 1 - 888 - 332 - 0000prince edward islandp . e . i . family violence prevention servicesphone : 1 - 800 - 240 - 9894prince edward island victim support servicesqueens and kings county : 902 - 368‑4582prince county : 902 - 888‑8218yukonkaushee ’ s place / yukon women ’ s transition homecrisis line : 867 - 668 - 5733 ( collect calls accepted from outside whitehorse ) phone : 867 - 633 - 7720yukon victim servicesphone : 867 - 667 - 8550after - hours support victimlink : 1 - 800 - 563 - 0808northwest territoriesnwt help linephone : 1 - 800 - 661 - 0844yellowknife victim services24 - hour crisis line : 867 - 765 - 8811nunavutnunavut kamatsiaqtut helpline ( o pen nightly , 7 - 12 p . m . et ) toll - free : 867 - 979 - 3333 ( o cambridge bay , st . michael ’ s crisis shelterphone : 867 - 983 - 5232qimavvik shelter , iqaluitphone : 867 - 979 - 4500kugaaruk family violence centrephone : 867 - 769 - 6100story continues below advertisementolivia . bowden@globalnews . ca
__label__no_relevant more men are killed than women , so why focus on violence against women ? send this page to someone via emailmyrna dawson is no stranger to questions about focusing on violence against women when murder victims are predominantly men . as the director of the canadian femicide observatory for justice and accountability , she gets it a lot . her quick response ? “ it ’ s not a competition — it ’ s about prevention . ” her less - quick response ? violence against women is unique , and entrenched in our society , where she and many other experts note that social structures “ perpetuate and maintain gender inequalities . ” the term “ femicide ” isn ’ t meant to convey women are being killed more often than men , dawson says . “ it ’ s about underscoring that when women and girls are killed , it is in ways that are very distinct from the ways in which men and boys are killed and , therefore , prevention requires an approach that recognizes those differences . ” story continues below advertisementit ’ s about power , says nadine wathen , a western university professor and canada research chair in mobilizing knowledge on gender - based violence . in many respects , canadian society still buys into traditional gender norms and the idea that “ men have certain rights to this power to be able to control women , children , and other men who don ’ t conform , ” wathen says . “ we ’ re in a very heteronormative , white , male - dominated society and that works really well for a lot of men . ” tweet thisoverall , more men are murdered : 485 in 2017 versus 173 women , per statistics canada . but tease apart the data , says nazanin moghadami , a feminist and registered clinical counsellor in vancouver , and you ’ ll see that men are mostly killed in gang - related violence or random crime , while women are killed largely by their intimate partners . look at the police - reported victimization rate per 100 , 000 people in canada and you ’ ll see that 487 women experience domestic violence compared with 134 men . story continues below advertisementthe way men are murdered almost always has “ nothing to do with [intimate] relationships and power - based crime , ” moghadami says , which is why violence against women warrants a national action plan as opposed to an action plan that doesn ’ t distinguish between genders . look at the media and the work researchers have been doing on violence against men and boys , says dawson , and you ’ ll see stories about them that are never accompanied by , “ why aren ’ t you focusing on women and girls ? ” it ’ s all about the context : “ the subject of violence against women makes people uncomfortable , ” says dawson , which might be because of who is perpetrating the violence . “ people continue to adhere to the notion that such relationships are private and that violence within such relationships is normal . ” a lot of work has been done to look at risk factors like who is a victim , who is a perpetrator , what age they are and how they are related . while that ’ s important , dawson says we don ’ t look enough at the bigger picture of gender inequality — issues like the ongoing wage gap , the devaluation of women ’ s work , or the lack of universal daycare . “ one way to deflect attention is by suggesting that more men are killed so these contributors cannot be the problem , ” she says . story continues below advertisementaddressing violence against women and gender nonconforming people not only helps women and gender nonconforming people , moghadami says , but men too . “ the stronger the women ’ s movement became , the more it actually brought equality , access and awareness for more than just women , ” she says . “ when we have equality , we have inclusion for the most vulnerable , and it protects everyone . but if we only focus on the people who have power , then we always forget the people who are targeted . ” tweet thisnone of this is to say that individual women don ’ t cause harm or commit crimes , says wathen , but the way our society is structured right now means that women “ suffer more from these experiences of violence . ” trying to neutralize the gendered aspect of this violence doesn ’ t help anyone , says wathen . one of the questions that keeps her up at night is how to better explain this to the men in her life who want equality but don ’ t always see their actions , including things like interrupting women frequently when they speak , through an equity lens . “ the people who are more marginalized need a bit of extra resourcing at the front end to get us to equal outcomes . ” ultimately , dawson says , she doesn ’ t think there would be such a backlash to researchers and media reports that focus on violence against women “ if our society valued women and girls . ” story continues below advertisement “ we would not be criticized for turning some attention to women and girls and violence against them given that research and media does also focus on men and boys , ” she says . “ those who deny this are choosing to ignore this reality for a specific purpose . ” want to learn more about gender - based violence , like sexual harassment , the complexities of violence against trans people , the shelter crisis , and the importance of teaching your kids to say vagina rather than ‘hoo - ha ’ ? read the full broken series . if you or someone you know is experiencing abuse or violence and needs help , here are resources you can access across canada . 
__label__relevant you can use this domestic abuse hand signal to alert others for women , covid - 19 has not only brought health concerns , but the lockdown has seen a surge in domestic violence cases . the united nations population fund and its partners avenir health , johns hopkins university in the us and victoria university in australia , noted a 20% increase in violence during an average three - month lockdown in all 193 un member states , according to the guardian . forced to live with their abusers in this lockdown , it becomes even more difficult for women to report it , or even share the matter with their near and dear ones . to sort this out , a domestic abuse hand signal has come to light , which women are using across canada to alert their friends on video calls about the domestic abuse that they are facing . one such video was shared on youtube by the canadian women ’ s foundation . the domestic abuse hand signal involves holding your hand up to the camera with your thumb tucked into your palm , and then folding your fingers down and trapping your thumb in your fingers . how to use the domestic abuse hand signalduring a video call , it may be difficult for women to speak about domestic abuse , especially at a time when their abuser is somewhere near them and might catch the woman complaining . therefore , this signal comes as a saviour for women , because they can now alert their friends that they feel threatened , without leaving any digital trace . how to use it ? the signal involves holding your hand up to the camera with your thumb tucked into your palm , and then folding your fingers down and trapping your thumb in your fingers . also read : domestic violence and connected laws indian women should know ofwhat should you do if you come across a woman using this symbolit is important , for both the survivour and her friends and family to know what the symbol means . even more important is to take action as soon as you come to know that someone ’ s feeling threatened . so what should you do ? if a friend were to use this signal while on a video chat , try emailing , texting , or calling your friend back so you aren ’ t on speaker . ask them yes / no question like if they want you to call a helpline number or if they need shelter or something else . for domestic violence helpline numbers to call in india , refer here . let them know that you ’ re there for them in case they need you , at any point in the day . the domestic abuse hand signal came as a response to feedback from frontline and support workers in canada , refinery 29 reported . not only on video calls , but this symbol can also be used to alert others when interacting face to face . since lockdown has forced people to stay at homes , this has also affected the domestic violence support services worldwide . in india , domestic violence cases saw a huge surge in number in the first week of lockdown . the national commission for women reported that it got around 257 complaints in the last week of march . south africa saw almost 90 , 000 reports of gender - based violence during the first week of its lock - down from march 26 to 2 april . the australian government reported a 75% increase in online searches for support on domestic violence since lockdown from 23rd march . also read : numbers show lockdown to have catastrophic impact on women : unfpa
__label__relevant statement from minister monsef and minister charest on support for women ' s shelters and centres for victims of sexual and domestic violence in quebec during the covid‑19 pandemic ottawa , may 4 , 2020 / cnw / - today , the honourable maryam monsef , canada ' s minister for women and gender equality and rural economic development , and isabelle charest , quebec ' s minister for education and minister responsible for the status of women , issued the following joint statement : " the covid‑19 pandemic has created unprecedented challenges for victims of sexual and domestic violence . while canadians are encouraged to stay at home for their safety , it is crucial to consider the victims of the escalating violent behaviours that can result from the current health crisis . we recognize that home is not a safe place for everyone . during these exceptional times , additional resources are needed so that organizations can adequately meet the needs of victims . the government of canada has therefore paid more than $6 . 4 million directly to the government of quebec to support women ' s shelters and support agencies for victims of sexual and domestic violence in quebec , to help them improve safety , support emergency preparedness and increase their capacity . this funding is part of the $50 million the federal government is providing to support front - line shelters and sexual assault and domestic violence centres across canada . by working together , we are taking a holistic , consistent and coordinated approach to addressing the covid - 19 pandemic . we will continue our close collaboration to support organizations that provide essential services to victims and survivors of gender - based violence so that these organizations can retain the means in place to prevent and manage covid - 19 outbreaks , stay safe and remain a lifeline for those most in need . today , we unite to encourage those who do not feel safe at home to use the resources available . all resources , whether support agencies or shelters , are open despite the crisis . victims of sexual assault are encouraged to contact the toll - free resource line for victims of sexual assault at 1 - 888 - 933 - 9007 . for victims of domestic violence , sos violence conjugale is available to help you 24 hours a day , 7 days a week , at 1 - 800 - 363 - 9010 . " we would also note that the government of quebec has already announced that one - time emergency funding of $2 . 5 million is being provided to meet the increasing needs of centres and shelters for female victims of domestic violence and battered women affected by multiple social issues ( french only ) . the transfer of funds will therefore increase the financial assistance already granted . related linksin a crisis or emergency , call the police by dialling 9‑1‑1 . information and services : https : / / www . quebec . ca / en / family - and - support - for - individuals / assistance - and - supportsos violence conjugaletoll free : 1‑800‑363‑9010http : / / www . sosviolenceconjugale . ca ( french only ) source women and gender equality canadafor further information : marie - pier baril , press secretary , office of the minister for women and gender equality and rural economic development , 613 - 295 - 8123 ; alice bergeron , press secretary of the minister for education and minister responsible for the status of women , 418‑997‑4093related linkshttp : / / www . swc - cfc . gc . ca / 
__label__relevant she couldn ' t find the answers she needed on domestic violence . so this st . john ' s woman got to work cherine day says she was assaulted by her former partner , and is having trouble navigating the law enforcement and judicial system . ( sherry vivian / cbc ) on mother ' s day in 2019 , a police officer knocked on the door of cherine day ' s st . john ' s home . her former partner , they told her , had been caught watching her house from his vehicle parked up the street . it came months after day went to police with allegations of assault . she says the last year and a half has taught her patience — not a lesson of her own choosing , but the byproduct of a system day believes is failing women in newfoundland and labrador . the single mom of two says she went to the royal newfoundland constabulary in january 2019 , after three years in a tumultuous relationship . her former partner , leslie miller , is now facing charges of assault and criminal harassment . miller has pleaded not guilty . the allegations against him haven ' t been proven in court , and the trial has been delayed until october , due to the covid - 19 pandemic . day says going to police was not the end of a lengthy , confusing , and at times , frustrating journey . instead , it was just the beginning . day was in an on - again , off - again relationship with les miller from 2016 to 2019 . ( submitted by cherine day ) " the onus is on me to make sure i want to meet with the crown attorney , i want to make sure the evidence collected made it to disclosure , to understand what i can and can ' t do . what can i talk about ? what can i not talk about ? " said day , from her st . john ' s home . " there ' s no one place to provide a whole holistic view of it . " resource centre she never hadin the spring of 2019 , day saw a social media post from a woman in ontario who was trying to share information about her ex - boyfriend , kevin evans . evans was wanted in ontario on charges of assault and sexual assault . he has since been convicted of assaulting two other ex - girlfriends in newfoundland . day reached out to the ontario woman , whose name is covered by a publication ban , and since then they ' ve been running a facebook page dedicated to educating and helping other women . it has hundreds of members who are screened before being allowed to join to ensure the women in the group feel safe . it ' s the resource centre day says she never had , and aims to fill a void in the system . day and several other women run a facebook page dedicated to helping women who have survived intimate partner violence . ( sherry vivian / cbc ) " it ' s not a bashing group — posting photos of men . we ' re more of a supportive community , we talk about how do we support each other , " day said , adding the women plan to ensure no one has to attend court alone . day says they help with victim impact statements and talk with each other about how the process will unfold in the police station and in the courtroom . day applauds the rnc ' s intimate partner violence unit but says there are just not enough members to keep up . rnc chief joe boland has not committed to expanding the unit , but says he would like to if the resources were available . victim services is also an option , but day says they cannot be expected to answer every question from every facet of the complex system . " everybody is overworked . there ' s so many cases , they don ' t have time to sit down and speak with you , " she said . " for me , i need to understand , ok , when i make a charge , what happens next ? what are the things i need to be expecting ? they don ' t explain the process . " it ' s just a colossal mess for some women . - michelle greeneday has met with michelle greene , executive director of iris kirby house , who agrees there needs to be a more streamlined system . " i think there ' s many silos in the justice system , " greene said in an interview with cbc news for the series stopping domestic violence . " i ' m a social worker . many of the staff here have professional degrees as well and we have trouble navigating many of the systems . " greene said in many cases a woman could be tackling the justice , law enforcement , housing and child services systems all at once . " it ' s a colossal mess for some women . " the good and the bad of social mediaday says her facebook page is creating positive results , but she also sees the flip side of social media — how domestic violence can flourish online . she has seen examples of women who have met partners on dating apps , only to later realize they have a history of abuse . " there ' s nothing from a social media perspective to stop them . there has to be some accountability , " day said . " if you ' re willing to date someone like that , that ' s fine but most of these women don ' t know . they have no clue . " day sits in atlantic place in st . john ' s , awaiting a court update on miller , who is heading to trial in october of two counts of assault and one count of criminal harassment . ( ariana kelland / cbc ) greene says she has seen an increase in women seeking shelter at iris kirby house after meeting men on dating apps . once they get here , greene says , they are trapped in violent , forceful relationships . a time of reckoningbig players in the online dating world , like tinder and bumble , have guidelines in place to deal with abusive users — but only if they are flagged about the behaviour . " when a user reports an assault to tinder , we attempt to identify the alleged perpetrator and block the associated account , " a spokesperson from tinder told cbc news . several online dating services , such as tinder , hinge , plenty of fish , match and okcupid , are owned by the same company — match group . " the incident is then reported to match group ' s centralized safety repository and checked across our various brands to see if the user has other accounts on other platforms , " the spokesperson said . " if any are found , they are blocked as well . " day says this is a time of reckoning for women who once felt silenced by their abusers . together , she said , they feel empowered to go against the grain and fight for a better system . day is preparing for miller ' s trial this fall . when she goes through the doors of provincial court in st . john ' s , she takes solace that she won ' t be alone . if you need help and are in immediate danger , call 911 . to find assistance in your area click here . for general advice , contact ipvu at ipv@rnc . gov . nl . ca or call 709 - 729 - 8093 . are you facing intimate partner violence ? here are some resources in n . l . that can help . 
__label__relevant funding to help victims of domestic abuse during covid - 19 outbreak london , ont - - victim services across ontario , including agencies in the london region , are getting a funding boost during the covid - 19 pandemic due in part to a rise in domestic violence cases . the ontario government is boosting funding by more than $2 . 7 million to support victims of domestic violence and other violent crimes . " during the covid - 19 health emergency , victim service providers are seeing a spike in domestic violence cases just as victims are left with fewer and fewer places to turn for help , " said ontario network of victim service provider president sheri macdonald in a statement . for some across the province and canada , self - isolation can mean being isolated with an individual who is abusive . victim services elgin will receive $25 , 750 and victim services middlesex county will receive $75 , 400 as part of this one - time emergency payment which is being made to more than 50 agencies across the province . the funds are intended to help organizations in rural areas stay open and accessible to those who need them . " this emergency payment will ensure victims of crime , particularly those who are experiencing domestic violence , get the help they need to stay safe and healthy during this crisis , " said mpp jeff yurek . trying to find ways to support and shelter women has become a new challenge that anova in london is facing during the covid - 19 pandemic . “ we are seeing an increase in our services . more women quite frankly are coming to our doors for support with domestic violence and abuse , ” says dr . annalise trudell of anova . ” we are having to look at all sorts of housing options in addition to shelter options and our counselling is increasing as well . ” trudell says with physical distancing also being key for the safety of their clients , housing options have extended beyond the organizations regular shelters . this move has increased costs , when anova was already dealing with underfunding . ” we are at a very big crunch moment where if we don ’ t see those dollars soon , we ’ re going to be in some trouble . ” trudell says it ’ s unclear how much of the new funding her organization will receive , but every dollar helps . meanwhile , the london abused women ’ s centre ( lawc ) is also working to provide support to women of domestic abuse during this trying time . executive director megan walker says it ' s unclear if her organization will receive any of the funding because they don ’ t run a full - time shelter . however the lawc does work with community partners to find women a safe place to stay . ” right now we are working with police , so if they respond to a 911 call and the woman is presenting as abused and the woman needs to get out even as an overnight reprieve , the police know the location we are working with . police can then bring them to that location immediately and that ' s all taken care of . ” walker says the centre is also checking it ' s voicemail every 15 minutes , so if anyone calls for immediate help they can get in touch with support very quickly . ” we are doing the best we can under really difficult circumstances and we are working collaboratively with anova and our other partners because there is no wrong door to walk through , ” says walker . “ whatever door you walk through , whatever door you walk through as a woman facing violence is right for you and we are all being responsive to those needs . ” if you or anyone you know is in an abusive situation and needs help here are a list of local organizations and numbers : london abused women ’ s centre : 519 - 432 - 2204anova crisis line : 519 - 642 - 3000 or 1 - 800 - 265 - 1576violence against women , services elgin county : 1 - 800 - 265 - 4305domestic abuse services oxford : 519 - 539 - 7488women ’ s interval home of sarnia lambton : 519 - 336 - 5200 - with files from ctv ' s justin zadorsky
__label__relevant her husband told her not to work , then cut off her money — how financial abuse traps women send this page to someone via emailwhen sara was pregnant with the first of her three children , her husband told her she wouldn ’ t have to worry about going back to her career in human resources . his message was clear , she says : “ i do the money , you do the children . ” at the time , that arrangement seemed fine to sara . that ’ s the way her parents ’ relationship had worked , she says . ( global news is not using her real name due to the sensitive nature of her case . ) sara expected to be fully absorbed in child - rearing , and her husband , a high - flyer in the insurance industry , made more than enough to support their growing family . besides , sara initially kept working part - time , taking on a teaching job at a post - secondary institution after her first maternity leave . story continues below advertisementit wasn ’ t until two years later , when she became pregnant with her second child and switched to teaching only one course per year for much lower pay , that money started to be tight . but when sara asked her husband to give her cash for groceries , clothing and other day - to - day expenses for herself and the kids , she says initially he would only give her $600 a month . any time she asked for more money , he would yell at her , accusing her of wasting it and telling her she couldn ’ t be trusted with it , she says . if she brought up returning to work full time , she got a similar reaction . their bank accounts were separate , so sara had no real sense of the family ’ s finances . although her husband was never violent with her or the children , he was prone to screaming , shaming and hitting furniture in fits of anger , she says . “ i was scared of him . ” tweet thisabuse often involves money , with one partner monopolizing financial resources as a way to exercise control in an intimate relationship . it ’ s a specific type of abuse that advocates say makes it harder for victims to leave and rebuild independent lives but remains a woefully understudied issue . story continues below advertisementfinancial abuse often occurs alongside violence and other types of coercion and exploitation . while men can also experience it , 80 per cent of intimate partner violence victims are women . around half of women staying in shelters have experienced financial abuse , according to statistics canada data . u . s . studies , however , suggest the overlap with domestic violence may be much more significant , finding between 94 and 99 per cent of women in abusive relationships have been subjected to some form of financial abuse . “ we hear it consistently , from survivors themselves ( and ) from service providers , just how prevalent financial abuse is , ” says lieran docherty , program manager at the woman abuse council of toronto ( womanact ) and co - author of a recent report on financial abuse titled hidden in the everyday . 1 : 13 what is violence against women ? what is violence against women ? financial abuse happens at all income levels , the report found . household incomes at the time of the abuse ranged from under $25 , 000 to $150 , 000 a year , according to interviews with 14 survivors conducted by researchers at womanact . story continues below advertisementwhile sara ’ s family led an upper - class lifestyle with a $100 , 000 luxury car and lavish vacations every year , she was constantly counting pennies . to save money , she stopped wearing makeup , started shopping at second - hand stores and learned to make the most of coupons , she says . “ there were two years i went without a haircut . ” tweet thisthe abuse can take many forms , advocates say . often , it involves abusers exercising complete control over household financial flows , with women like sara kept in the dark about the family ’ s assets and liabilities and unable to access or open bank accounts . some women in the womanact study reported their partners would regularly steal cash from their wallets , seize their paycheques and credit cards and spend tax refunds and government benefits , including the canada child benefit , on themselves . in other cases , abusers prevent women from earning an income by undermining their employment or preventing them from getting a job or going to school . one survivor interviewed by womanact recalled her partner demanding money from her while at the same time hindering her ability to earn it . “ even though he wanted my money , he would , like , lock me — literally , lock me in my bedroom and stay at the door — and i couldn ’ t go to work so i ended up losing my job . ” tweet thisstory continues below advertisementvictims of financial abuse often end up in debt , advocates say . sometimes , that ’ s because they have no choice but to borrow money to pay for necessities for themselves and their children . when sara ’ s middle child went through two shoe sizes in five months during a growth spurt , she lay awake at night thinking about how to pay for extra pairs of indoor and outdoor shoes for school , boots and skates . she told the kids not to mention the additional shoe - shopping to their father . “ we had to keep things secret from daddy because , otherwise , he ’ d get mad as hell , ” she says . sometimes , sara says , she was so desperate she turned to a line of credit she had had since before getting married . once , she says , she was forced to ask her parents to help her pay off the balance . not wanting to do that again , she says she had to make the allowance from her husband stretch in order to make monthly partial payments to the credit line as well . over time , sara managed to gradually increase the allowance to $2 , 500 a month as her husband ’ s salary grew . by that time , though , servicing her debt was costing her around $1 , 200 a month . by that point , the rest of the money had to cover not just groceries and clothing but also all expenses related to the holidays , birthdays , special occasions and entertaining , she says . story continues below advertisement “ i was always worried about the debt and running out of money , but i found that i kept piling on more debt just to make it appear to him like i had enough to manage . ” tweet thissometimes , it ’ s the abuser who takes on debt in the victim ’ s name . 20 : 22 women of colour are often left out of conversations about violence — they shouldn ’ t be women of colour are often left out of conversations about violence — they shouldn ’ t beone victims ’ services worker who spoke to womanact recalled a client who was left with $10 , 000 in parking fines racked up by her partner on a vehicle registered in her name . unpaid debts , however they come to be , often leave survivors ’ credit scores in tatters , which exacerbates victims ’ already difficult attempts to secure housing if they leave their abusers . “ if you don ’ t have credit , you can ’ t get a house , ” says angela marie macdougall , executive director of battered women ’ s support services in vancouver ( bwss ) , noting that landlords often check prospective tenants ’ credit scores . story continues below advertisementproving your domestic partner committed credit fraud can be complex , docherty says . often , survivors don ’ t even attempt to challenge loans and credit cards obtained without their knowledge or consent , advocates say , they simply resign themselves to slowly rebuilding their credit once they have left the relationship and regained control of their credit file . it ’ s a process that can take up to several years , says kim pentico , director of economic justice at the u . s . - based national network to end domestic violence ( nnedv ) . to help women boost their score , the organization has started a micro - lending program through which survivors can apply for a $100 loan and repay it over a 10 - month period , with nnedv reporting each payment to the credit bureaus . 8 : 29 école polytechnique massacre : why we remember 30 years later école polytechnique massacre : why we remember 30 years laternone of the advocates to whom global news spoke were aware of a similar program currently running in canada . story continues below advertisementequifax canada is having “ ongoing conversations ” on the issue of financial abuse , which has also emerged as a problem in cases of human trafficking , says julie kuzmic , director of consumer advocacy at the credit bureau . transunion , the other major credit bureau in canada , did not comment . victims of financial abuse also have to contend with little support from the government , domestic violence counsellors say . in vancouver , affordable child - care options are the “ biggest barrier ” to survivors ’ ability to get a job and an income of their own , macdougall says . in ontario , the income threshold to receive legal aid is so low that many victims of financial abuse don ’ t qualify for it even if they have limited access to household finances , docherty says . the current threshold for victims of domestic abuse is $22 , 720 for an individual and $32 , 131 for couples . victims who are not eligible for the service often don ’ t follow through with family law proceedings or end up representing themselves , she says . story continues below advertisementand ontario works , which provides financial assistance to low - income individuals and families , requires that couples apply jointly after only three months of living together , something support workers told womanact can worsen a woman ’ s financial dependency on her abuser . still , people can escape financial abuse . victim support services can help come up with an exit strategy that minimizes safety risks to women and their families . ( however , advocates urge victims to use caution when searching for such services online as abusers can often track their partners ’ online activities on their personal devices . ) women who are leaving an abusive relationship should take at least half the money in any joint accounts , bwss suggests . “ many women survivors of violence who have had to flee their home report being surprised to discover their partner immediately drained any joint bank accounts , ” the organization warns . another important step toward self - sufficiency is learning about money , from budgeting to investing and risk management , says tina tehranchian , a certified financial planner at assante wealth management . it ’ s essential that women understand household finances and the family ’ s net worth , she says . story continues below advertisementit took sara years to realize she had a right to know all that . she says that when she realized what her husband was doing was financial abuse — it was a psychologist who told her — she started pushing back and he left . now that she is separated and receiving spousal support , sara finally has enough money not just to take care of herself and her children but to go back to school to update her skills and resume her work in human resources , something her husband always resisted . she has applied to graduate school and is also setting up a consulting business , she says . sara is savouring her newfound financial independence , especially her new car . “ when i took that car out on the freeway and realized i could make the decision to buy it and that it was mine , i cried , ” she says . story continues below advertisementonly a few months old , the car already has 21 , 000 kilometres on it . “ it ’ s my freedom . ” to read the full broken series , go here . for a list of resources if you need help , go here . our reporting doesn ’ t end here . do you have a story of violence against women , trans or non - binary people — sexual harassment , emotional , physical or sexual abuse or murder — that you want us to look at ? email us : erica . alini@globalnews . ca
__label__relevant woman escapes abuse during pandemic , giving hope to others there was a moment , sitting under a bright , brilliant sky , that a feeling washed over laura , so unfamiliar at first that she couldn ' t place it . then it dawned on her — she was relaxed . laura , an alias created to protect her identity , had just removed herself from an abusive relationship , despite numerous challenges presented by the covid - 19 pandemic . now , experiencing relaxation in her transition home for the first time in years , she made a point of savouring the moment . " i am safe , " she said . " it ' s an amazing gift . " the gift of safety , however , is one that eludes countless women in b . c . as they suffer through abuse in homes they can ' t escape . last month , canada ' s minister for women and gender equality said there has been a 20 to 30 per cent increase in domestic violence since the pandemic began . sairoz sekhon , manager of women ’ s transition housing and supports program for b . c . housing , says they ' re doing their best to provide service during the covid - 19 pandemic . ( maggie macpherson / cbc ) increase in abuselaura , who had been in an abusive relationship for years , knew something had to change the day she felt blood run down her face . she had just been hit in the eye with an object . days earlier , her abuser was angry and drunk , threatening her with a kitchen knife he had raised over his head . " every time i tried to leave , he would escalate his violence to threaten me to not go , " she said . " i didn ' t know where to go . " laura briefly moved in with family after her abuser was arrested . she was scared , had just lost her job due to the coronavirus and was concerned about moving into a group home setting during the pandemic , but the facility she reached out to assured her it had health and safety protocols in place . almost immediately after she arrived , she knew she made the right decision . " i haven ' t felt this safe in a long time , " she said . " this place , it ' s just unbelievable . " amy fitzgerald , executive director of the b . c . society of transition houses , expects demand for beds in shelters and transition houses will increase when covid - 19 restrictions are relaxed . ( maggie macpherson / cbc ) more bedsthe b . c . government secured nearly 300 emergency shelter beds in hotels and other facilities in response to the increase in domestic violence calls . b . c . society of transitional houses executive director amy fitzgerald says so far , the demand for beds hasn ' t matched the dramatic spike in calls and texts that have flooded crisis lines since the pandemic began . she believes that ' s because many women are trapped in situations where everyone in their home , including their abuser , is staying home during the pandemic , which makes it more difficult to escape . " with the easing of restrictions and folks being able to leave their residences more freely , we anticipate that there will be more women coming into shelters , " she said . " we ' re trying to work with them and strategize so that women can actually access shelters in a safe way . " sairoz sekhon , who runs b . c . housing ' s women ' s transition housing and support program , says the emergency beds are also needed because capacity is reduced at certain shelters to accommodate physical distancing rules . " that ' s been a significant challenge , " she said . " women and children need space to isolate safely . " calls to crisis lines in b . c . about domestic violence have increased during the covid - 19 pandemic . ( maggie macpherson / cbc ) getting awaydebbie scarborough , who runs a transition home in the b . c . ' s okanagan region , says it ' s often doctors who help connect women in abusive relationships with support , but with fewer medical appointments happening due to covid - 19 , she fears that ' s not happening . that ' s one of the reasons , she believes , that her staff are responding to an unprecedented number of emergency text messages and phone calls . scarborough says an increase in alcohol consumption — b . c . liquor stores reported a 40 per cent increase in sales in the early days of the pandemic — also plays a big role . " abusers are often drinking and then their tempers flare , " she said . " now women and children are trapped in their homes with their abuser and there ' s nowhere to go . " that ' s the situation laura found herself in but she escaped . now she ' s encouraging other women to do the same . " they don ' t judge you , they just want you to know that you ' re protected , " she said . " you can work on you and get your life back together . " cbc vancouver ' s impact team investigates and reports on stories that impact people in their local community and strives to hold individuals , institutions and organizations to account . if you have a story for us , email impact@cbc . ca . if you have a covid - 19 - related story we should pursue that affects british columbians , please email us at impact@cbc . ca . 
__label__relevant government of canada supports over 500 women ' s shelters and sexual assault centres during the covid - 19 pandemic ottawa , may 16 , 2020 / cnw / - the government of canada is supporting canada ' s most vulnerable people during these times of uncertainty . this includes taking critical measures and making new investments to support shelters that provide a safe space for women fleeing violence and their families , and to ensure the continuing resilience of organizations assisting survivors of sexual assault . on april 4 , 2020 the government of canada announced up to $40 million through women and gender equality canada for women fleeing gender - based violence . today , the honourable maryam monsef , minister for women and gender equality and rural economic development , announced that this funding has been disbursed to over 500 women ' s shelters and sexual assault centres from coast to coast to coast . even before the covid - 19 pandemic , women ' s shelters and sexual assault centres across the country required support to manage demand , and these needs have increased significantly over the last few weeks . during these exceptional times , additional resources are needed so that organizations can continue to provide desperately needed support to some of canada ' s most vulnerable . to meet these needs , the government of canada provided $20 . 54 million to women ' s shelters canada which has , to date , distributed funding to 422 violence against women shelters across canada . another $3 million was provided to the canadian women ' s foundation , which has , to date , provided funding to 89 sexual assault centres across the country . an additional $6 . 46 million was given directly to the government of quebec and is flowing to women ' s shelters and sexual assault centres in the province . the government of canada ' s emergency funding ensures the continuity and sustainability of services provided by these organizations , supporting their efforts to adjust to the evolving needs of survivors , while facing sudden and unexpected changes to everyday operations . the many dedicated organizations supported by these investments include inasmuch house in hamilton , ontario , which will keep crisis lines and emergency shelter services open to survivors , miramichi emergency centre for women in miramichi , new brunswick , which will adapt their shelter to accommodate self - isolation procedures , saskatoon interval house in saskatoon , saskatchewan , which will continue ensuring safe accommodations for families , and south okanagan women in need society in penticton , british columbia , which will purchase new equipment to connect remotely with survivors . these and many other inspiring organizations supported by the government of canada have shown outstanding dedication , perseverance and creativity in their work of supporting survivors of violence in a difficult and unpredictable time . for a full list of organizations receiving funding , click here . quotes " if home isn ' t a safe place for you to be , help is available . organizations that provide a safe place for survivors of violence are open and ready to provide support and we are deeply grateful for their tireless work at this challenging time . the quick flow of these emergency funds will help ensure that these organizations have the resources they need to continue their lifesaving work . our first phase of emergency covid - 19 measures has enabled over 420 shelters and 89 sexual assault organizations to stay open and operate with new covid - safe measures in place . the next phase of our supports is underway . " the honourable maryam monsef , p . c . , m . p . minister for women and gender equality and rural economic development " women and girls facing violence and poverty have been uniquely affected by the pandemic , and we must not overlook the fact that many of the existing inequalities and hardships have become magnified . the government of canada ' s investments are not only helping shelters and sexual assault centres keep their doors open , but are also empowering creative solutions in a time of uncertainty . thanks to this funding , women and girls in need can continue relying on timely services which will save lives . " paulette senior , president and chief executive officercanadian women ' s foundation " a number of shelters and transition homes were struggling prior to the covid - 19 pandemic . with the numerous adaptations required to continue to provide services while meeting health and safety standards , they have demonstrated commitment and creativity . having access to the federal emergency funds in a quick and efficient manner made a huge difference to shelters and transition houses , allowing them to continue to support the women and children fleeing violence . this funding , along with the dedicated work of counsellors and support workers , is making a real difference in the lives of some of the most vulnerable people in canada . " lise martin , executive directorwomen ' s shelters canadaquick factsthe government of canada is investing $157 . 5 million to address the needs of canadians experiencing homelessness through the reaching home program . the funding will cover a variety of needs that can range from purchasing beds and physical barriers for social distancing and securing accommodation to reduce overcrowding in shelters . is investing to address the needs of canadians experiencing homelessness through the reaching home program . the funding will cover a variety of needs that can range from purchasing beds and physical barriers for social distancing and securing accommodation to reduce overcrowding in shelters . indigenous services canada is currently distributing $10 million to its existing network of 46 shelters on first nations reserves and in yukon to support indigenous women and children fleeing violence through the family violence prevention program . to its existing network of 46 shelters on first nations reserves and in to support indigenous women and children fleeing violence through the family violence prevention program . visit the gender - based violence knowledge centre ( kc ) for access to timely and relevant information , evidence , resources and research in a single platform . the kc also provides a searchable database , which brings together existing data and evidence on content related to gender - based violence . the canada mortgage and housing corporation ' s shelter enhancement program on - reserve offers financial assistance for repairs , rehabilitation , and improvements of existing shelters on - reserve for victims of domestic violence . it also provides for the acquisition or construction of new shelters and second - stage housing where needed . in june 2017 , women and gender equality canada announced the first - ever federal strategy to prevent and address gender - based violence . to date , the government of canada has invested over $200 million to prevent gender - based violence , support survivors and their families , and create more responsive legal and justice systems . associated linksfollow the women and gender equality canada : source women and gender equality canadafor further information : marie - pier baril , press secretary , office of the minister for women and gender equality and rural economic development , 613 - 295 - 8123 ; media relations , women and gender equality canada , 1 - 855 - 969 - 9922related linkshttp : / / www . swc - cfc . gc . ca / 
__label__relevant winnipeg man charged with 2nd - degree murder in suspected domestic violence incident a 45 - year - old man is accused of killing a woman in what police are describing as an act of domestic violence . emergency crews responded to a multi - family residential building on redwood avenue near charles street around 11 : 40 a . m . on friday after getting a report of an injured woman . marie morin , 46 , was found inside one of the building ' s suites with what police described as " a significant laceration " and taken in critical condition to hospital , where she was pronounced dead . brandon carl starnyski was taken into custody and charged with second - degree murder and failing to comply with a probation order . he was taken into police custody . in a news release on saturday morning , the winnipeg police service said homicide investigators believe morin was socializing with starnyski at his home when he assaulted her . police spokesperson const . jay murray said morin was not stabbed , but he would not provide more details about the assault . the death is winnipeg ' s 15th homicide of 2020 . 
__label__relevant halton police plan to show community the pervasiveness of domestic violence nine times each day , halton police officers are called to respond to an incident of intimate partner violence . now the service has decided it wants the community to know " how pervasive " the underreported violence is . the police service , which polices oakville , burlington , milton and other smaller communities west of toronto , announced this week it will begin publishing media releases about some of those intimate partner domestic violence calls . those releases will not disclose names or residential details , but will include the " nature of the incident " and detail the charges laid . officers in halton region responded to more than 3 , 300 intimate partner violence calls last year , according to a release . statistics canada estimates that more than 80 per cent of incidents go unreported . " intimate partner violence reaches across socio - economic , cultural , racial and class distinctions , " said halton police deputy chief jeff hill in a release announcing the new approach . " we are broadening the conversation to clearly signal that this insidious violence is not solely an issue of concern to victims . " halton women ' s place has applauded the initiative by police and it hopes it will encourage more abused women to seek help . " it can happen to your neighbour , your mother , your sister , your best friend or yourself , " said executive director diane beaulieu . " if women actually see themselves in the story , they may be more likely to come forward . " she noted that " when women are being abused , very often they think they ' re the only ones — that it doesn ' t happen in somebody else ' s home , " and so an approach like this could help victims . " it ' s all about awareness , which is what [halton police] are trying to do , is to bring awareness to the issue and let people know it does happen in our community . " police said along with non - identifying details of incidents , each media release will also include three " key messaging " points of information : reinforce that no one has the right to abuse another person . encourage victims and witnesses to contact the halton regional police service . provide a comprehensive list of community resources for those affected . police hope the new initiative will create an opportunity to connect those who are at - risk or who are already victims of intimate partner violence , with " the resources and support they need and deserve . " hope is more women seek helpthe halton women ' s place would fall under one of those resources for support . it ' s a place where abused women and their dependent children are allowed to stay for up to 10 weeks . its beds — 52 in halton , 22 in milton and 30 in burlington — are at " 95 to 105 per cent capacity at all times , and those are the women that do come to the shelters , " said beaulieu . however , beaulieu says " so many [women] don ' t access services , " and can be " dependent on their partners and not able to leave a situation . " men were responsible for 83 per cent of police - reported violence committed against women , according to a report on gender violence by statistics canada released today . most commonly , the accused was the woman ' s intimate partner . 
__label__relevant covid - 19 : pandemic has led to an increase in domestic violence in b . c . article contentthe covid - 19 pandemic has brought a surge in domestic violence around the globe , and angela marie macdougall , executive director of vancouver ’ s battered women ’ s support services says b . c . is no exception . macdougall ’ s organization had been carefully following a rise of domestic violence in china when the pandemic was declared , and worked hard to get plans in place ahead of the coronavirus arriving taking hold here . we apologize , but this video has failed to load . tap here to see other videos from our team . try refreshing your browser , or covid - 19 : pandemic has led to an increase in domestic violence in b . c . back to videoconversations with contacts in china had already revealed the toll that restrictions in movement , shelter - in - place orders , quarantines and social isolation had on women trapped in abusive domestic situations , said macdougall . “ we wrote a letter to the prime minister and minister of finance about additional funding for shelters , sexual assault centres and groups like ours . we ended up not getting any funding , which shows a big gap in recognition of the kind of work groups like ours do , ” said macdougall . 
__label__relevant in canada , non - status women are being left behind lack of access to emergency income supports , such as the canada emergency response benefits and the canada child benefit , are leaving behind already - vulnerable people desperate to find shelter , food , and healthcare . for non - status women working on the front - lines of the pandemic , this exclusion from emergency relief intensifies pre - existing issues of poor working conditions , lack of paid sick leave , and low pay , and many are at heightened risk of contracting covid - 19 due to working without adequate protection . anti - asian racism further compounds risks for migrant workers who face discrimination and increased violence . moreover , loss of income can also have a ripple effect on non - status women leading to loss of housing , food insecurity , and for women parenting young children , risk of investigation for child maltreatment and neglect . a gender - based violence pandemicthe covid - 19 pandemic has heightened the pre - existing crisis of gender - based violence worldwide . universal measures which require social distancing and staying home assume the home is a safe place . as isolation is a key tactic used by abusers , stay at home measures increase the risk and inescapability of gender - based violence : when women and children are confined with abusive family members or are unable to connect with their support networks , this intensifies an abuser ’ s control over their victims . for non - status women in particular , fear of deportation is used as a tool of power and control by abusers and may prevent women from coming forward to report violence . in addition to domestic violence , non - status women also face increased risks of violence at the hands of employers , landlords , extended family members and others who may threaten to report them to border authorities . in response to increased risks of gender - based violence under covid - 19 measures , the canadian government announced $30 million to address immediate needs of shelters and sexual assault centres . these response measures must be accessible to victims regardless of their immigration status , which means loosening eligibility restrictions and implementing “ access without fear ” policies across all agencies that survivors may turn to for support . 
__label__no_relevant live : prime minister justin trudeau announces $200 million for shelters , domestic abuse victims millions of masks set to arrive in canada within 48 hours , trudeau saysupdate : prime minister justin trudeau announced $200 million in funding for emergency shelters and victims of domestic abuse saturday , with $40 million of that fundiing dedicated to womens shelters , sexual assault centres and women facing violence . trudeau acknowledged the call for national projections for the covid - 19 pandemic , but instead offered a link to current information on the government of canada website . the prime minister also used saturday ' s address from rideau cottage to announce that " millions of masks " will arrive in canada within the next 48 hours . when asked by media about the order issued to 3m by u . s . president donald trump to stop the export of n95 masks , trudeau said canada has been engaged in " constructive conversations " over the past week , adding that the u . s . would only be " hurting itself " by restricting the flow of goods across the border . original story : prime minister justin trudeau is scheduled to brief canadians on covid - 19 in what has become his daily address from rideau cottage . village media will carry the livestream . 
__label__relevant this secret signal could help women in lockdown with their abusers newswhy defunding the police is the best way to protect black livesgeorge floyd ’ s name became a hashtag as soon as his brutal killing by police was caught on tape for the world to see . in the past two weeks , a new hashta
__label__no_relevant more needs to be done to help victims of domestic violence mélanie joly , minister of economic development and official languages tells mercedes stephenson more resources and funding are needed for frontline workers and women ’ s shelters to help women who are victims of domestic violence , since we learned the partner of the gunman in the nova scotia mass shootings was also a victim of domestic abuse . 
__label__no_relevant the most concerning sign of domestic violence source : used with permission from iclipartoctober is domestic violence awareness month . it ’ s a sad reminder that what starts out with and love can become ugly and tragic . it ’ s also a reminder that even among abusive relationships , some are deadlier than others . one of my jobs as a is to estimate the violence risk of batterers so we can develop safety plans for victims and parole plans for perpetrators . it ’ s not easy ; there are psychological barriers that get in the way . many of us have a hard time admitting — even to ourselves — that we ’ re being abused by spouse or partner . even when we know it ’ s abuse , it can be easy to make excuses for it : it was the , or poor role modeling , or a bad . even when we recognize , it ’ s hard to predict it . as a group , mental health professionals tend to overestimate the risk of violence , which can result in the scarce available resources , and level of intervention , not being selectively targeted to the people most at risk . on the other hand , as a group , law enforcement officers tend to underestimate the level of risk . a large 2019 study from the u . k . found that , even when front - line officers used a structured risk tool to evaluate a victim ’ s risk of serious harm , their accuracy was barely better than if they had flipped a coin . given the fact that a few perpetrators are responsible for the most serious domestic abuse harm and this harm is concentrated among a subset of victims , it is critical to sort out the wheat from the chaff when it comes to risk factors that make a difference . recent research from johns hopkins school of nursing indicates 20 factors that influence whether violence risk goes up or down – things like whether the abuser has access to a gun , whether they are threatening to kill themselves , or whether the behavior is escalating . there is one risk factor , though , that stands out above all the others : strangulation . batterers who strangle their victim are more likely to engage in other extreme acts of violence ; it ’ s a message that there are no limits to which he won ’ t go . the odds are , he ’ s willing to kill . only you should decide what goes around your necka large case - control study in the united states found that previous domestic violence involving strangulation is a substantial and unique predictor of attempted and completed murder . statistically , it multiplies the odds by seven . not only is this important for domestic violence victims to know , it is critical for the people who try to help them . twenty percent of domestic violence homicide victims are friends , family members , neighbors , or others ( including law enforcement officers ) who attempted to intervene on a victim ’ s behalf . it ’ s not hard to imagine that a perpetrator who will choke his wife or girlfriend might also be willing to commit violent attacks on a police officer or well - intentioned bystander . asking the right questions about strangulationfortunately , the word is getting out about this dangerous warning sign . san diego county , for instance , just launched a campaign to teach health care providers how to spot signs of domestic violence strangulation . you might think they ’ d be easy : look for red marks or bruises around the neck . but it ’ s not . more than half the time , there are no visible marks or physical signs of injury on a victim ' s neck , making detection impossible unless health - care providers know what kinds of questions to ask and what other symptoms to look for , such as hoarseness , a sore throat , lapses in , pain while swallowing , and shortness of breath . there are also longer - term effects , both psychological and physical , that are not so obvious . multiple attempted strangulations are commonly reported by women in domestic violence shelters but were often missed by law enforcement and health - care providers . that is changing . while there is no indication that the frequency of nonfatal strangulations has increased , strangulation felony charges have quadrupled in the last six years because police officers are increasingly referring victims for evaluation to forensically - trained clinicians who are asking the right questions , such as how the victim was choked , whether the victim was verbally threatened or physically assaulted in other ways , how often this has happened , whether drugs or alcohol were involved , and how the victim responded . the bottom linesince 2017 , four women a day have been killed by an intimate partner . strangulation is often one of the last abusive acts a batterer commits before he kills ; surviving strangulation is surviving attempted murder . from a violence risk perspective , nonlethal strangulation is as much a red flag as the odor of alcohol in a dui investigation . in any domestic violence situation , it should be asked about , talked about , and , if present , acted upon . as the old proverb goes , better a thousand times careful than once dead . facebook image : tinnakorn jorruang / shutterstock
__label__relevant inuit women in canada ’ s arctic suffer ‘unnecessary violence ’ from police , legal aid board says warning : details in this story may be disturbing to some readers . inuit in nunavut , especially women , suffer systemic police abuse , including excessive violence and persistent racism , according to the territory ’ s legal aid agency . the legal services board of nunavut says it has “ significant concerns ” about the quality of policing and conduct of officers as reported by its inuit clients in nunavut ’ s 25 communities . the board is calling for a systemic review of policing in nunavut . the allegations include “ repeated and systematic instances of unnecessary violence , ” and a lack of oversight and training specific to inuit culture . “ there appears to be a particular pattern of poor service when it comes to women in domestic and sexual assault matters , ” the board ’ s ceo , benson cowan , wrote in a letter dated june 13 , 2019 , addressed to the civilian review and complaints commission for the rcmp ( crcc ) . cbc news was provided a copy of the letter and a followup letter , both obtained by a freelance journalist under access to information legislation . the second letter , dated jan . 23 , 2020 , describes the “ humiliating and degrading ” experience of two women strip - searched by rcmp officers in nunavut . both letters call on the commission to initiate a full , systemic review of policing across the territory . “ the systemic nature of such conduct is so pervasive that only a broad review would be effective for understanding the true scope and character of the problem … and in identifying solutions , ” cowan wrote in the first letter from last june . “ it is imperative that some effort is made to improve the quality of the police services provided by the rcmp and their relationship with the communities . ” trying to better understand concerns : crccboth the rcmp and the crcc declined cbc ’ s interview requests for this story . in a letter to the legal services board in march , the crcc said it “ remained committed to conducting a systemic review of rcmp policing activities in nunavut . ” but in an email to cbc news , cowan said that was the first he ’ d heard of the commission ’ s commitment . “ when we met in june [2019] , we discussed the options for reviews . but this is the only time they have said they are committed to do so , ” cowan wrote . in an email to cbc , the crcc did not confirm it would conduct a systemic review , but did say it began meeting with stakeholders in january 2019 . “ while the crcc continues to work toward identifying specific rcmp activities in nunavut that could be examined , present travel restrictions have led to the postponement of meetings planned for this spring , ” wrote kate mcderby , director of communications . the rcmp said in an email to cbc it would be “ premature … to discuss the content ” of the board ’ s allegations “ until the crcc has made the decision to launch or not ” a systemic investigation . allegations from more than 30 casesthe allegations in the legal services board of nunavut ’ s letters include 32 cases from across the territory . the board says the cases are from the past few years and cover “ a small fraction of the occurrences ” but “ provide an accurate picture of the nature of the issues with rcmp policing across nunavut . ” the allegations are listed under eight categories : inadequate response to domestic violence and sexual assault . handling of female victims and accused . strip - searching of women in nunavut . systemic violence . warrantless entries into homes . failure to provide medical attention . racism and cultural insensitivity . in one case , the board says , a young inuk woman attended a detachment to lodge a sexual assault complaint . “ instead of taking her statement , the rcmp charged her with breaching her own [parole] conditions , ” the board wrote . women who called in fear of domestic violence and sexual assault “ often reported ” they had to wait “ excessive amounts of time … that the matter was not a sufficient emergency … or … told to stop calling the police , ” one letter said . in another case , the board says , police attended a sexual assault involving full penetration in progress . police arrested the accused while the victim was allegedly “ left unclothed ” and “ was not offered any assistance including not taken to the health centre . ” in some cases , the complainants who called for help were themselves arrested and charged , some after an illegal search of their home , the board says . degrading strip searchesother cases described what the board says were illegal and degrading strip searches . in one instance , a prisoner alleged she was pinned to the cell floor and forcibly stripped by three male officers . “ eventually she crawled to the cell door and passed out naked in the fetal position , ” the letter says . in another case , a male rcmp member forcibly removed the underwear of a 19 - year - old woman in a cell , the legal services board alleges . according to information from one woman ’ s lawyer , provided to cbc news by a freelance journalist who now works for the broadcaster , the woman was strip - searched and tied naked to a restraint chair for two hours . the supreme court of canada , in a landmark 2001 decision , said strip searches are inherently degrading and humiliating . officers must take extra care to ensure they are done appropriately and in line with canada ’ s charter of rights and freedoms . that includes ensuring officers involved in the strip search are of the same gender as the prisoner . paul mckenna , an expert in good policing practices with more than 30 years of experience , told cbc news illegal strip searches are an issue across the country . “ it ’ s not a show — it ’ s a process and procedure , ” he said . “ if we ’ re looking at trying to maintain human dignity , there ’ s a clear exclusion of different - sex officers on the scene ” for a strip search . the crcc told the cbc it was finalizing its report on a national review of strip searches , a recommendation that came out of a 2017 investigation of policing in northern b . c . ‘racialized violence is a genocide ’ other cases cited in the board ’ s letters described allegations of excessive force . in one case , a male officer allegedly grabbed a female prisoner by the head and pushed her to the ground with such force he appeared to be left with some of the woman ’ s hair in his hands . the legal services board also references three coroner inquests into police - related deaths in nunavut , citing the fact that nunavut ’ s rate of police - related deaths since 1999 is nine times higher than ontario ’ s . gendered and racialized violence is a genocide … woven into the fabric of canadian society . pauktuutit inuit women ' s associationthe recommendations from those inquests “ for the most part , have been ignored , ” cowan wrote . many of the allegations made by the board are echoed in the pauktuutit inuit women ’ s association report , addressing gendered violence against inuit women , released in january . “ gendered violence against inuit women is a problem of massive proportions . women in nunavut are the victims of violent crime at a rate more than 13 times higher than the rate for women in canada as a whole , ” the report says . the rate of police - reported family violence against women in nunavut is the highest in canada — 11 times higher than the national average , the report says . women interviewed for the report complained of slow police response times , and said they have a lack of faith and trust in policing . the countrywide mistreatment of indigenous women by various institutions and levels of government is rooted in canada ’ s colonial history , the pauktuutit report says . “ as the national inquiry on missing and murdered indigenous women and girls has emphasized , this gendered and racialized violence is a genocide that is rooted in systemic factors woven into the fabric of canadian society . ” where to get help : if you ’ ve experienced trauma and need to talk about it , find some resources below . related stories from around the north : canada : man in violent canadian arctic arrest video wants officer charged , minister says he ’ s ‘outraged ’ , cbc newsfinland : police response times up to an hour slower in arctic finland , yle newsrussia : police crackdown on putin opponent ’ s offices in arctic russia , the independent barents observersweden : film exploring racism against sami wins big at swedish film awards , radio swedenunited states : lack of village police leads to hiring cops with criminal records in alaska : anchorage daily news , alaska public media
__label__no_relevant watch : ' ambitious ' goal set in support of alberta children traumatized by domestic violence edmonton journal headline newssign up to receive daily headline news from the edmonton journal , a division of postmedia network inc . email address there was an error , please provide a valid email address . by clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from postmedia network inc . you may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails . postmedia network inc . | 365 bloor street east , toronto , ontario , m4w 3l4 | 416 - 383 - 2300thanks for signing up ! a welcome email is on its way . if you don ' t see it please check your junk folder . the next issue of edmonton journal headline news will soon be in your inbox . we encountered an issue signing you up . please try again
__label__no_relevant boys in alberta schools get assaulted , threatened , robbed and slurred more often than rest of canada austin debussac was in grade 8 when his schoolmate pulled out a knife and showed it to him . " are you scared of it ? " he recalls the fellow teenager saying , which made him nervous . then things escalated . austin says the student put him in a chokehold and wielded the weapon in a terrifying way . " he held the knife to my throat . " the student held him that way for a moment , then let him go . it was all a joke , he insisted afterward . but even now , at age 18 , it ' s no laughing matter to austin . " i honestly didn ' t believe him at the time when he said he was joking around , " he says . some may assume this type of thing is an isolated incident . but a survey commissioned by cbc news of more than 4 , 000 young people across canada suggests it ' s more common than you might think . nationwide , 13 per cent of survey respondents said they were threatened with physical violence involving a weapon at least once from kindergarten to grade 8 . in alberta , it was 15 per cent . and among male students in alberta , it was 22 per cent — more than one in five . experiences with violence and bullying only tended to increase in high school . roughly two in five young albertans ( of all genders ) said they had been physically assaulted — shoved , slapped , hit , kicked or bitten — at least once from grade 9 to grade 12 . more than a third said they had been robbed of money , cellphones or other valuables . nearly two thirds said they had been called hateful names , while 40 per cent said they had been subjected to racist comments and 27 per cent said homophobic or transphobic comments were directed at them . in all these cases , the rates among male students in alberta were significantly higher than in the rest of canada , according to an analysis done by mission research , which conducted the survey on behalf of cbc news . nearly half of teen boys assaulted in high schoolamong the nearly 500 alberta youth who were surveyed , 49 per cent of boys said they were physically assaulted at least once in high school . that compares to 40 per cent of male students in the rest of the country . compared to their peers in other parts of canada , boys in alberta high schools also reported higher rates of having valuables stolen ( 33 per cent versus 25 per cent ) and being called names that are homophobic or transphobic ( 34 per cent versus 26 per cent . ) jake stika says he was disappointed but not surprised by the survey results . as executive director of a non - profit organization called next gen men , he works to promote " positive masculinity " and to redefine perceptions of what it means to " be a man " in canadian society . he notes that alberta ' s population , unlike most provinces , has more men than women , thanks largely to the male - dominated industries that make up a large part of the economy here , such as construction and oil and gas . he notes , too , that those industries have been going through tough times lately , something that has been linked to higher rates of domestic violence and suicide in the province . " and so i definitely think some of that anxiety , that uncertainty , is transferring over from the breadwinners in those homes to the children , as well as to the broader culture that we exist within here , " stika says . " men are unfortunately the primary perpetrators of all forms of violence and , aside from sexual and domestic violence , we ' re actually the no . 1 victims of all other forms of violence as well . " that ' s not to say the issue is limited to boys . ' gay as an insult ' samantha robinson , a grade 7 student who recently started attending a new school in calgary , says she ' s so far been shocked at how often students there " use gay as an insult . " " it ' s like : ' oh , that ' s so gay . ' or , ' you ' re so gay . ' or , ' this is so gay ' or whatever , " she says . " it makes me feel kind of like an outsider , because some of the kids in my class know that i ' m pansexual and … to hear this said from other people who aren ' t gay , it ' s kind of just uncomfortable in this situation but it ' s also kind of hurtful . " samantha robinson , a grade 7 student in calgary , describes what it ' s been like to change schools and hear how often kids in her new school use ' gay ' as an insult . ( robson fletcher / cbc ) samantha says she ' s tried to call out the behaviour but it ' s been difficult , as the new kid . " if i try to say something , it feels like the whole school is against me , " she says . " and the teachers don ' t do anything , either . " however , with the notable exception of sexual violence ( which will be discussed in a subsequent story in this series ) , the reported rates of bullying and violence among female students in alberta were not significantly different from their peers in the rest of canada , according to the mission research analysis . across alberta , there are hundreds of school authorities that each set their own policies on bullying and violence . the provincial government leaves it mainly up to each authority to administer these policies but requires that they comply with legislation to ensure " safe and caring " learning environments . one unusual approach that defies the typical types of school in alberta is the phoenix education foundation in calgary . while technically a private school , it caters largely to lower - income families , offering a hybrid of homeschooling and in - class learning for parents who want to have more direct involvement in their children ' s education . while it ' s not the primary source of their enrolment , head of school diana stinn says a growing number of parents come to phoenix because of violence or bullying their children have experienced in other school systems . diana stinn is head of school with the phoenix education foundation in calgary . ( robson fletcher / cbc ) " parents used to come for a variety of reasons . one was higher academic standards , or time together as a family — those kinds of things . over the last few years , we ' ve seen a significant change to anxiety and bullying being in the top three reasons why families decide to make a change , educationally , " stinn says . " oftentimes these families have tried the public system ; they ' ve tried the catholic system ; they ' ve tried other private schools and then they end up on our doorstep . so it ' s not for a lack of trying other options . but quite often when they come , they ' re frustrated . they ' re sad sometimes or very broken sometimes or angry . but they still are very much concerned about their student and wanting the very best for their kid . " incidences of violence are not tracked at a provincial level . it ' s up to " local school authorities and local law enforcement " to keep track of such things when they happen , says colin aitchison , press secretary to education minister adriana lagrange . ' not all sunshine and roses ' for austin ' s parents , the incident with the knife being held to his throat in grade 8 remains a frustration , even though he ' s now graduated from high school . they didn ' t want his photo included as part of this story because they still worry about his safety and don ' t want him to become a target . they feel the knife incident wasn ' t taken seriously enough by the school principal at the time and it left a lasting impression on the family , which had recently moved to calgary from saskatchewan when it happened . " to have your child lay there at night and cry and say ' mom , i hate it here . why why did we have to move here ? ' and you don ' t know what to tell him , " says his mother tracy debussac . " and you have to send him back to that school . " his father , myron debussac , says the people in charge of education at all levels need to acknowledge the issues more openly if the problems are going to be solved . " they ' ve got to get their heads out of their asses and realize that there are problems going on there , and there has to be more conversation , " he says . " and listen to the parents . it ' s not all sunshine and roses . " ' an adult who cares ' stinn , who has seen parents ' frustration and students ' anxiety first - hand , says bullying and violence are complex issues and systemic solutions will be , too . but , in her mind , there ' s one simple way to start making things better . " the no . 1 thing that makes a difference in everybody ' s life is having an adult who cares , " she says . " everybody is capable of doing that . and whether it ' s the teacher , whether it ' s involving more parents in the classroom , whether it ' s other caring professionals that are involved , having an adult who makes an effort , who shows that they care about a student — that is one of the no . 1 factor to ensuring that students are successful in school . " and , as an educator , she hopes parents won ' t look at the statistics in this survey and become despondent . " i think schools are amazing places , " stinn says . " people work very hard . they care about kids . it maybe doesn ' t always seem that way . i think education is complex . our world is getting more complex , but i think as long as we always keep the best interests of kids at heart then the school system and education will always be a value . and it will be a good experience for the majority of kids . " this survey was undertaken by the firm mission research on behalf of the cbc . the approach and questions were developed by the cbc , in collaboration with two of canada ' s leading researchers / psychologists on childhood violence , debra pepler and tracy vaillancourt . read more stories in this series : if you have feedback or stories you ' d like us to pursue as we continue to probe violence in schools in the coming months , please contact us at schoolviolence@cbc . ca . 
__label__relevant child sexual abuse expected to rise amid covid - 19 pandemic , experts say alberta experts in child sexual abuse prevention are predicting an increase in incidents over the coming months . covid - 19 forced the closure of the little warriors be brave ranch — a non - profit treatment centre near edmonton for survivors of child sexual abuse . staff members will continue therapies online and by phone for 25 children and teens who were staying at the facility , along with about 75 more families across canada . clinical director dr . wanda polzin is concerned about how the pandemic will affect all vulnerable children . global news asked her what she feels we need to know . the following interview has been edited for brevity . q : why might children be more at risk for abuse during this time ? a : with the covid - 19 pandemic , it is a perfect storm for child abuse to amp up . even without the present stressors , child sexual abuse continues [with] studies confirming one in four girls and one in six boys under the age of 18 are sexually abused in canada . story continues below advertisementwith families being in states of toxic stress more than ever , covid - 19 is tipping the scales toward increased vulnerable situations where children are more likely to be left unsupervised with other children or unsafe adults as a result of school closures . further , increased financial stressors due to parents / caregivers now being out of work , [along with] anxiety , create increased domestic violence and substance misuse with nowhere [for kids] to safely call home . q : are there any warning signs that friends or even neighbours could watch for ? [ sign up for our health iq newsletter for the latest coronavirus updates ]a : there are signs such as a child / teen speaking out about being harmed in some way ( this should always be taken seriously ) , journalling / writing about negative experiences , changes in mental health ( increased anxiety , depressed mood , increased behavioural acting out , sleep issues , etc . ) . unfortunately , due to the pandemic , many children , teens and families will exhibit these same “ red flags “ due to the stressors upon us . [pay] attention to interactions with neighbours , loud arguing , unusual bruising , etc . story continues below advertisementalthough we need to socially distance ourselves , it is important that we come together and safely reach out within our immediate family circles as well as within our communities . 4 : 09 coping with stress and anxiety during covid - 19 pandemic coping with stress and anxiety during covid - 19 pandemicq : if someone sees or hears something that they ’ re concerned about , what should they do ? a : it ’ s always better to err on the side of caution and report concerns to child and family services or police / rcmp in their particular jurisdiction . q : what tips do you have for families ? a : it is important that you know alternative caregivers ; this is particularly important as schools are no longer operating . children can be more vulnerable as a result of caregivers desperately trying to find child care . be aware that too much news can create a vicarious trauma effect . it can become overwhelming for little ones and the repetitive nature of the pandemic messages can create anxiety to the point of toxic stress . story continues below advertisementread more : how to talk to kids about the novel coronavirus without scaring themcreate [your own] space for yourself as well as your child while staying home . without this , children ’ s and parents ’ window of tolerance for each other grows very small . be proactive and try to loosely plan the day with activities while maintaining social distancing… reading , followed by exercise , an indoor scavenger hunt , etc . support your child / teen with various activities using social media , pinterest , etc . do your best to practice mindful self - care to support your own positive mental health . remember : you are the template for your child . they will follow your lead . connection is more important than correction . try as best as you can to maintain a routine . ( i know this is hard when kids are out of school , but it supports safe boundaries and a feeling of “ we got this ” ) . let your child / teen talk about their worries but do not over - focus on them . story continues below advertisementtry to lead your child / youth with grounding / calming exercises and / or quality connection time . if nothing else , this time together allows us to connect like never before . practice coping skills together with your child…share with them what you do that works ! help them create a daily self - care routine ( using music , gratitude journalling , art projects , nature walks , games , books , movies , collaging , cooking / baking , exercising , etc . ) . [in summary] it ’ s important to follow the expert advice regarding covid - 19 . being socially isolated creates new , difficult experiences for us . we are all going through a period of grief and loss in the short term , but also in the projected future . to overcome stress , it is important to try to maintain routines , create space individually for self care and creatively reach out to others using social media , telephones and any other way that is safe to do so . humans are social beings and we need healthy contact . 
__label__no_relevant proposed domestic violence protection act gets odyssey house backing odyssey house in grande prairie is throwing its support behind the provincial government ’ s proposed disclosure to protect against domestic violence act . the act , modelled after “ clare ’ s law ” , would allow at - risk individuals to better find out if an intimate partner has a history of violence or an abusive past . director of communications with odyssey house makayla marcotte says the programs currently available in grande prairie allow them to try to allocate as much support as possible to help women who have experienced domestic violence by providing tools and encouragement . “ a big part of that is one - on - one counselling and supporting women as they navigate the court and legal system , ” she explains . “ in september alone we had 26 instances of legal support which totalled over 45 hours and that ’ s just a rough average for one month , so it ’ s prevalent . ” marcotte says the most important part of the proposed law , in her mind , is it could bring attention and awareness to domestic violence and the growing number of reported cases in the grande prairie region . “ saskatchewan was the first province to introduce a law of this type in 2018 , and alberta has the third - highest rate of domestic violence in the country , ” she notes . “ this law is a way the government is really recognizing the magnitude of domestic violence , and how it affects alberta and canada . ” according to the family violence death review committee , there were 166 deaths in alberta due to domestic and family violence between 2008 and 2017 . clare ’ s law was enacted in the united kingdom after a woman with that name was killed by an ex - boyfriend with a history of domestic violence . 
__label__relevant calgary woman faces manslaughter charge in boyfriend ' s 2019 death article contentthe fatal assault of a man in february 2019 has been ruled a domestic homicide by calgary police , who have charged the man ’ s girlfriend with manslaughter . after a long investigation , calgary police laid charges in relation to the deadly incident at the heritage ctrain station on feb . 7 , 2019 . around 10 p . m . that day , officers responded to reports of a couple passed out on the floor of the station . we apologize , but this video has failed to load . tap here to see other videos from our team . try refreshing your browser , or calgary woman faces manslaughter charge in boyfriend ' s 2019 death back to videoa man was in medical distress when officers arrived , and he was transported to hospital where he was pronounced dead . the woman that was with him was taken to hospital as a precaution but was released shortly after , police said in a news release wednesday . police allege the man , identified as benjamin rain , 29 , of calgary , died from injuries inflicted by his girlfriend . rain ’ s autopsy showed he had died following a “ violent domestic incident . ” “ in complex cases like this one , it can take a while to gather the evidence needed to piece together what happened , ” said staff sgt . colin chisholm with the homicide unit . 
__label__relevant advocates push to name victims of deadly domestic violence as privacy pressures mount article content continuedindeed , public bodies are compelled to release a person ’ s name if it is clearly in the public interest . alberta ’ s privacy laws make no special mention of domestic violence ; in british columbia , it is specifically referenced as a consideration in the release of information . the police framework says there must be “ no blanket policy to release the name or not release the name . ” each decision is made on a case - by - case basis . one of the factors that can be considered by police when releasing a name would be that the public has a heightened interest because of the seriousness of the offence . another factor that can be considered is that naming the victim may personalize the crime and help bring the community together in response . camrose police chief mark neufeld , a former eps superintendent and now the head of the alberta association of chiefs of police , says whether or not the family wants the name released is a big factor for officers , who work closely with families in the aftermath of a domestic homicide . “ sometimes the family is saying it might be easier if it ’ s released , some people will take right to social media themselves , ” said neufeld , who has seen his share of domestic homicide cases . he was in edmonton dealing with the press in december 2015 when 53 - year - old phu lam killed eight people , including his wife thuy tien truong and other family members , and later shot himself . ian kucerak / postmedianeufeld says homicide detectives work with families in these sensitive cases , and will let them know pertinent details , such as the fact that their son - in - law , for instance , has been charged with the crime . a discussion about naming the victim may see police discussing the implications of either choice with the family . he says the family ’ s wishes are weighed heavily in the decision to release or not to release the name , while acknowledging that even within families , opinions often differ . “ it ’ s a bit of a process of negotiation , we help people to see the bigger picture when they might not want to understand the bigger picture , ” he said . “ it ’ s a tough one . at the end of the day there is no way you can make everyone happy all the time . ” eventually , the decision to release a victim ’ s name or not will be run through the aacp decision framework , documented , and checked over by the police department ’ s legal department . at that point , the communications department will put together a news release . neufeld says he understands the argument that releasing names of domestic homicide victims could be of benefit to the overall public , and insists there is no “ cookie cutter approach . ” this comment might lead members of the public to think that police may , at times , release the name of a domestic homicide victim . news reports , however , show that has generally not been the case in edmonton . it can be hard to pin down which homicides are domestic cases because police do not routinely identify them as such . previous reporting analyzing edmonton killings between january 2017 and may 2017 showed 17 confirmed homicides ; of those 17 cases , police did not release the slain person ’ s identity in eight of them . six of those were domestic homicides . there were 30 homicides in edmonton in 2018 , 24 males and six females . almost half of victims were not named by police and news reports indicate six of them were domestic homicides , including the deaths of two children . of those six domestic homicides , only one name was released by police , that of 25 - year - old brittany vande lagemaat . police were searching for a suspect in the lagemaat case , eventually arresting kenneth richards , 35 , and noting the two were known to each other and that richards had “ brittany ” tattooed on his arm . some think the police are not the right body to make a decision on whether names should be released , because they could be perceived as having a conflict of interest . “ police across canada have made tremendous progress in the last 20 years in addressing domestic violence , ” notes domestic violence expert peter jaffe . “ but having said that , the police play a unique role and there has to be a high level of accountability . ” jaffe says police may have had prior involvement with the family of a victim ( there was extensive police involvement with the family before the lam mass murder , for instance ) . “ you don ’ t want the police service making decisions about what gets released , when , in fact , they may have had prior involvement with the family and may have the most critical information to share , ” said jaffe . neufeld responds that the aacp decision framework , a public document , is in place so people can understand police decision making in order to avoid fears of a conflict of interest . “ this is our effort to be transparent . we ’ re showing our work in reaction to this . not everybody agrees . the one thing we have to do is follow the law . ” chief neufeld questions whether it is the role of the police to shape public opinion , or lead the way in fighting a large social problem . “ it ’ s not as easy as saying we ’ d like to shape the public discourse on this . we need to be factual and give as much information as we can . that ’ s our role . in terms of recognizing trends…more fulsome discussions can take place elsewhere . ” public intereststill , neufeld and work , both well - versed on foip , note that law is open to interpretation . here is where the police practice around naming victims , and the perspectives of advocates for abused partners may be at odds . jan reimer of acws , who has read the framework , says “ public interest ” can be broadly defined . “ it is in the public interest to understand the dynamics of violence against women , to understand the risk factors and that these are not isolated incidents , ” said reimer in an e - mail interview with postmedia on a day she had laryngitis . reimer says when police speak , they are reflecting community standards , and that it ’ s important those standards reflect the serious nature of domestic violence . “ domestic violence is never simple , it ’ s a complex social problem . it needs the light shone on it — and can ’ t be hidden away . ” lfaulder@postmedia . comfollow me on twitter @eatmywordsblog . 
__label__no_relevant alberta government may distribute up to $110m in isolation cash an abrupt end to applications for provincial emergency isolation payments has left some albertans frustrated and frantic . alberta premier jason kenney said monday an estimated 90 , 000 people have or will receive a $1 , 146 emergency cash payment after self - isolation left them without pay . calgary electrician kurt perkins is unlikely to be one of them . he said he almost lost his mind on monday morning when he saw applications for the emergency payments were closed . perkins was preparing to spend another day dialling into jammed government phone lines for technical help with the online application process . the website wouldn ' t recognize his id . he said it was unfair of the government to offer up emergency funds it couldn ' t fully deliver , and cruel to pull them away when they knew there were technical problems . " i call it a lottery because it was nothing other than that , " perkins said monday . " intermittently , it would work , and then it wouldn ' t . " the funds were disbursed based on luck , not need , he said . perkins likely qualifies for the federal canadian emergency response benefit ( cerb ) program , which began accepting some applications monday morning . it offers $2 , 000 a month for four months for people who stopped working due to the pandemic , and includes contractors and freelancers . however , application dates are staggered by birth month to prevent the online system from becoming overwhelmed . perkins ' birthday is in december , so he won ' t be able to apply until thursday . meanwhile , he ' s falling further behind on his payments , he said . ' it ' s complete stress ' tannessia boehner is under similar financial strain . she went into isolation last month when she was ill with a chest infection . she works as a chef and a manager at an edmonton domestic violence shelter and does not qualify for sick pay . she also gained custody of her nephew last week . he has asthma and needs to be isolated during the coronavirus pandemic . she started applying for provincial isolation funds on march 25 , the day applications opened . when the website wouldn ' t recognize her id , she was also left redialing busy phone lines . boehner tried setting alarms for 3 a . m . , thinking she might get a call through when most people were sleeping . it didn ' t work . " i ' m absolutely devastated and distraught and now suffering panic attacks , " she said monday . " i worked so hard to gain custody of my one - year - old nephew . this is supposed to be the happiest time of my life . " she said she can ' t apply for the federal aid program without notifying the federal government of a recent address change — and no one is answering those calls , either . premier says volume of online applications ' uncharted territory ' ndp labour critic christina gray said monday the government mishandled the isolation payments and should take steps to help albertans who are in dire financial situations without aid . based on industry layoff reports , she surmised there are thousands more people who should have qualified for emergency financial help . kenney said one lesson from the covid - 19 pandemic is that alberta will need a provincial government website that can handle tens of thousands of concurrent online application form submissions . " frankly , no governments have been through this kind of demand for social payments since , well , in decades - - since we ' ve had online technology . so , this is uncharted territory , " kenney said monday . although the government had guessed it would need $50 million for the program , the final total payout is likely between $106 million and $110 million , kenney said . " the program turned out to be twice as large and twice as generous as anticipated . i regret for people that didn ' t get through the system — that system simply wasn ' t set up to come with those demands , " he said . the labour ministry is currently reviewing outstanding applications from people who could only apply after their isolation period ended , said adrienne south , press secretary to labour minister jason copping , on monday . it means some people may still receive payments , she said . when that process is complete , she anticipates about 90 per cent of people who managed to submit an application for the payment will be approved . some applicants were deemed ineligible . the emergency cash injection was supposed to be a temporary measure to help albertans cover immediate expenses while many waited for the launch of cerb . 
__label__relevant violence against women intensifies with more chokings , more weapons : calgary shelter a calgary service agency says it ' s seeing a disturbing jump in the number of women facing extremely dangerous situations . the calgary women ' s emergency shelter says year - over - year , more women are reporting being choked and being threatened with weapons , based on a pool of about 400 people staying at the shelter or accessing counselling . executive director kim ruse says the number of women being choked has jumped 33 per cent , from 30 per cent of women last year , to 40 per cent this year . " it ' s such a personal way of assaulting someone , " ruse said of choking . " and even more so sometimes , than weapons . it ' s a power control tactic . " kim ruse is the executive director at the calgary women ' s emergency shelter . ( colleen underwood / cbc ) threats with a weapon , like a knife , jumped about 25 per cent . last year 20 per cent of respondents said they were threatened with a weapon , compared with 25 per cent this year . risks in general have gone up , ruse says . " what we are noticing is that the people looking for help now , the issues they are facing are more complex , so the danger assessment scores are higher . there is a higher level of risk than we have seen in the past . " ian wheeliker with the alberta council of women ' s shelters says while province - wide data is still being collected , a preliminary analysis points to an trend in calgary . " so for me , it ' s not so much the level of violence is increasing . . . but it ' s the intensity of the violence . " wheeliker says more research is needed to get to the root of this increase . ruse says the economic situation in the province is one factor . " families are struggling more , so sometimes when dynamics change in finances [or other areas] things can really escalate , " ruse said . " when families are facing other stressors , what might have been an issue before , becomes exacerbated . " 
__label__no_relevant lacombe iode chapter supports alberta council of womens shelters – lacombe express lord lascelles chapter looking to raise $100 , 000 for children exposed to domestic violencethe lord lascellees chamber of iode alberta out of lacombe is hoping to help raising $100 , 00 for the work being done by alberta council of womens shelters . the financial support from iode canada , which is national womens charitable organization that focuses on education , children and community services , will go to help children exposed to to domestic violence . valerie braden , president of iode alberta , is excited to support this cause . “ iode alberta is a proud supporter of alberta council of womens shelters work with children since 1995 . our fundraising goal this year builds on this support and we know that albertans will help us to reach this goal to get children traumatized by domestic violence the high - quality supports they need to begin healing , ” she said . to support this project , you can make a donation by cheque or money order lord lascelles chapter – iode . lacombe alberta / c / o marilyn cameron – treasurer . 143 parkland acres . lacombe , ab . t4l 15& . iode said any donations will make a difference . - with files from iode alberta
__label__relevant brain injury from domestic abuse a ‘public health crisis , ’ says b . c . researcher – victoria news nearly 80% of the domestic violence victims who reported to police last year were womena new program wants to address incidents of domestic violence in the north okanagan . - fanpop photoa british columbia mother in her late 30s says there was “ no support in sight ” after she suffered two serious blows to the head at the hands of different partners more than a decade ago . “ i was exhausted . i had to quit my job because i couldn ’ t get up , ” said the woman , whose name is not being used because she is separated from her child ’ s father and fears for her family ’ s safety . “ my head hurt so badly . i wasn ’ t able to focus . i felt really down on myself because i didn ’ t know why i couldn ’ t function properly . ” the mother said it would have been “ life changing ” if first responders , hospital staff and even family members had been aware of the effects of a potential brain injury from domestic violence and offered her support accordingly . “ i had no understanding that my brain was not working properly , ” she said , adding that she did not have trouble focusing , managing her time or multitasking before the first violent incident . “ it ’ s been hell to figure it out on my own . ” she said learning about the effects of a brain injury helped her overcome the shame she felt after the two blows , which happened several years apart when she was in her 20s . she sets timers and reminders on her phone to help structure her days and she keeps notes handy with ideas for meals and ingredients that sometimes elude her . she has also become certified in yoga and mindfulness , activities she said help her cope with the chronic effects of multiple concussions . the b . c . mother is a member of an advisory committee for supporting survivors of abuse and brain injury through research , or soar . the organization was founded in 2016 by karen mason , the former executive director of the kelowna women ’ s shelter , and her partner paul van donkelaar , a professor in the school of health and exercise sciences at the university of british columbia ’ s okanagan campus . compared with brain injury research being done on athletes , the research involving people who have suffered similar injuries from intimate partner violence is in its infancy , said van donkelaar . the silence and stigma shrouding domestic violence mean those who suffer brain injuries are falling through the cracks of what van donkelaar calls “ an unrecognized public - health crisis in canada . ” of nearly 96 , 000 victims of intimate partner violence reported to police in canada in 2017 , 79 per cent were women , according to statistics canada . but spousal and domestic violence is often not reported to police and it ’ s hard to determine how many survivors might have experienced traumatic brain injury as a result , said van donkelaar . based on research from the u . s . , including a study by the centers for disease control and prevention , he said the prevalence of brain injuries could be anywhere from 30 to more than 90 per cent of all survivors . read more : kelowna women ’ s shelter and ubco team up to study brain injuries in women abused by partnersthe soar team is assessing women to determine how many may have sustained traumatic brain injuries and the extent to which their symptoms overlap with sports - related concussions . the researchers use lab - based tests as well as a questionnaire that includes questions like ‘did you see stars ? ’ and ‘did you lose consciousness or have a period where you couldn ’ t remember things ? ’ the first results , published recently in the journal brain injury , show all 18 women initially recruited through the kelowna women ’ s shelter reported symptoms consistent with traumatic brain injury . the research is ongoing and van donkelaar said his team has now assessed about 60 women . domestic violence often includes blows to the head , face or neck , as well as strangulation , said van donkelaar . “ each of those experiences absolutely have the potential to cause some form of brain injury , similar to what you would see in many collision sports like football or hockey , ” he said . the b . c . mother said her former partner was strangling her when her head smashed against a bedside table as she tried to fight back . when family members brought her to the hospital , staff seemed “ frustrated ” that she didn ’ t remember exactly what happened and she had difficulty speaking coherently , she said . they stitched up the gash in her head , told her she may have a concussion and advised her to rest at home . the woman did not return to that abusive relationship , but several years later she sustained another serious blow to the head when a different partner threw her out of a moving car . she doesn ’ t remember how she got to the hospital , but she had a similar experience with staff at the hospital , where her then - partner urged her not to disclose what happened . “ i remember trying to ask for help and i feel like they treated me like i was intoxicated because i could not speak . ” they gave her an mri , said she had a concussion , encouraged her to avoid watching television or otherwise straining her eyes and told her she should be fine within a couple of weeks . in addition to assessments of the cause of the injury and the resulting symptoms , the best predictor of sustaining a concussion is having had one previously , said van donkelaar . “ each time , you will be less likely to recover fully , ” he said , noting that people who have suffered multiple concussions may end up with chronic symptoms such as dizziness , nausea or difficulty concentrating . “ that can be debilitating and absolutely reduce the quality of life in terms of the ability to hold down a job or go to school or parent your children or interact with colleagues and friends . ” the fear and stigmas that make it difficult for survivors to disclose domestic violence mean that brain injury becomes even more invisible , particularly if there ’ s a more visible injury , like a broken bone , van donkelaar said . in response , soar is developing resources to help shelter workers and health - care professionals have conversations with survivors of domestic violence to assess whether they might have a brain injury and refer them to the appropriate support services . read more : take a stand on international day for elimination of violence against womenpeople with brain injuries often need a range of support services , said mason , from counselling and parenting help to occupational therapy . this past summer , the department of women and gender equality gave $1 million over five years to van donkelaar and mason ’ s work , funding they hope to use to provide training for shelter workers in communities across b . c . next year . the b . c . mother said she still struggles some days but the knowledge , tools and support she has mean she no longer feels guilty or ashamed . “ i was so upset about why i didn ’ t feel like myself , ” she said . “ now i ’ m able to say , ‘well , there ’ s a reason i can ’ t do this , ’ and there ’ s forgiveness . ” brenna owen , the canadian presslike us on facebook and follow us on twitter . 
__label__no_relevant 250 , 000 front - line workers get pandemic pay boost in b . c . care aides , domestic violence workers and corrections staff are among the health and social service workers who are in line for a temporary pay bump during the covid - 19 pandemic , the b . c . finance ministry said tuesday . in a statement , the ministry said more than 250 , 000 eligible workers who provide front - line , in - person services in settings like hospitals , jails , long - term and assisted - living facilities would receive temporary pandemic pay . the pay comes as a lump sum payment worth about $4 per hour for a 16 - week week period starting march 15 2020 , it said . the ministry said workers do not need to apply for the extra pay and the payment will be made through their employers . " our front - line workers are providing vital support to people who are most vulnerable during the covid - 19 pandemic , " minister of finance carole james said in the statement . " temporary pandemic pay recognizes all that our health and social service workers do to help keep people healthy , our communities running and deliver important care and services to the most vulnerable during this challenging time . " according to a backgrounder , eligible employees must have worked straight - time hours during the 16 weeks beginning march 15 . management , fee - for - service providers or employees on leave are ineligible . a full list of eligible workplaces is available online . the province said the temporary pay boost is part of its $5 - billion covid - 19 action plan . the cost is being shared with the federal government . 
__label__relevant accounts of sex assaults in b . c . tree planter camps ' deeply disturbing ' b . c . ' s tree - planting community is grappling with new revelations of sexual assaults in remote work camps . more than 70 planters , almost all women , documented their experiences of harassment and sexual violence through an online survey for tree planters . several of their accounts were made public for the first time at the western forestry contractors ' association annual conference in prince george wednesday . as 100 silviculture managers and contractors listened in a hotel meeting room , airika owen , who helped conduct the survey , read from a thick stack of papers . at times , she choked back tears . she called the accounts " overwhelming . " the stories described planters raped in their tents , harassed on logging roads or dragged away to remote areas . " deeply disturbing , even traumatic , " john betts , executive director of the western forestry contractors ' association , told cbc news after listening to the presentation . hearing tree planters ' stories of sexual assault was overwhelming , said airika owen , who brought the accounts to the western forestry contractors ' association ' s annual conference in prince george . ( betsy trumpener / cbc ) concerns over management responseowen , the executive administrator for the northern society for domestic peace in smithers , b . c . , helped conduct the survey . she ' s also been been travelling to tree - planting camps to give workshops on sex assault prevention . in her presentation to contractors , owen said the survey showed widespread concerns about how reports of sexual assault were handled . some planters kept the assaults a secret . others said that , even after reporting what happened to managers , their attackers were allowed to stay in camp or transfer to other crews , without consequence . he put me in his truck and drove me . . . far from camp . — tree planter who says she was sexually assaultedsome mentioned that highly productive tree planters were given a pass . " we heard , ' if you plant a lot of trees , you can get away with anything , ' " said owen . about 400 current and former tree planters have responded to the survey . owen calls it a snapshot for the industry , rather than a scientific study . she said in the #metoo era , this provides one of the first opportunities for tree planters to tell their stories . remote camps add to risk " i think we ' ve lifted the hood up and we realize how deep and dark it is , " agreed betts . john betts of the western forestry contractors ' association said it ' s vital to face the industry ' s problem with sexual assault , given that 40 per cent of planting crews are female . ( betsy trumpener / cbc ) betts and owen said tree planting is not more dangerous than other industries . " but many of the aspects of planting camp that make it so amazing are also aspects that increase the risk for potential harm , " said owen . " one woman wrote about tree planting being the best years of her life , but that she is still haunted about what happened to her , " she said . i was raped and management did nothing . — cook who responded to online surveylike a college campus , there are close - knit , coed camps with large numbers of young people away from home , and alcohol and drug use . but the geographical isolation of camps presents a unique risk . " it ' s not like an office building downtown where if i ' m sexually harassed at work i can run outside and access any number of services , " said owen . " you ' re way out in the middle of the bush , usually without cell service . " betts said the silviculture industry has the courage to take action . " the incidents and the rate of them is shocking , " said betts . " i do not want to think that young women might be at risk . i don ' t want to have all the women putting their tents together so they can protect one another . we have a duty as employers to ensure their well - being . " in an industry where 40 per cent of planting crews are female , betts says it ' s vital to face this issue . he say it ' s especially important now , as contractors in b . c . gear up for a major increase in planting to offset wildfires and mountain pine beetles . 
__label__relevant response to the bc budget : a balanced plan to keep bc moving forward victoria , bc , feb . 18 , 2020 ( globe newswire ) - - in the second year of bc ’ s first poverty reduction strategy , together bc , family services is disappointed to not see even a modest increase in disability and income assistance rates ; as well as no further implementation of $10 - a - day childcare , as they are the government investment levers that can most directly improve the lives of families , single mothers , children , youth , seniors , and individuals living in poverty , who make up the majority of our clients . however , in terms of investing in the social services sector as a whole ; in supports for families facing possible child apprehension or with children in care ; in services to victims of violence and their children ; and in supports for people experiencing homelessness , family services of greater vancouver applauds the government for recognizing the importance of their ongoing investment these key areas . budget 2020 ’ s investments are very modest , and will require focused efforts in to provide tangible benefits for bc ’ s most vulnerable citizens . family services has several key requests of government for clarity and focus going forward : for the social services sector “ more clarity is going to be required on how the government plans to ‘support recruitment and retention ’ in the social services sector as a whole , ” says karin kirkpatrick , ceo of family services of greater vancouver . “ right now we can ’ t attract or retain our highly - educated and trained employees because we can ’ t pay them competitively . ” “ this is because social services agencies who deliver programs and services to people on behalf of government don ’ t receive enough funding to cover the actual delivery of these programs , and this funding is annually set and inconsistent . we look forward to working with government across ministries to help solve these recruitment and retention issues in 2020 . ” for familiesre . the “ $23m for services that “ support the health , safety and well - being of children and youth…which aims to reduce the number of children and youth in care . ” we ask that this funding be directed to programs that provide families with upstream supports to prevent child apprehension . for victims of violenceno increase in the assistance to victims of crime program in 2020 is insufficient . victims are currently waiting five to six months for assistance , which funds things like shelter , trauma counselling , locks on doors , and bars on windows . these wait times are unacceptable , and budget 2020 has done nothing to improve these . victims are currently waiting five to six months for assistance , which funds things like shelter , trauma counselling , locks on doors , and bars on windows . these wait times are unacceptable , and budget 2020 has done nothing to improve these . we ask for a shift in investment to fund victim support workers across the province . there are currently no victim support workers outside of urban centres in bc , and even those in vancouver can only serve 5% of the most high - risk , domestic violence cases . . there are currently no victim support workers outside of urban centres in bc , and even those in vancouver can only serve 5% of the most high - risk , domestic violence cases . we are disappointed to find nothing in the budget in response to west coast leaf ’ s submission to finance around the creation of community - based sexual assault teams and integrated sexual assault clinics around the province . victims of sexual assault outside of domestic violence are currently not served by ministry - funded victim support workers , and have to find support with community organizations that are themselves overburdened and underfunded . for homeless youthwhile we support the government ’ s building of 505 new shelter spaces and two new 60 - bed navigation centres for the homeless , we ask that part of these shelter spaces and services be specifically dedicated to homeless youth , who need different supports than adults and should not be sheltered with adults . we ask that at least part of the additional $50m over three years towards expanding programs and services that support people who are homeless or at - risk of homelessness be dedicated specifically to homeless and at - risk youth . expanding programs and services that support people who are homeless or at - risk of homelessness . we ask that some of the $56m in capital funding committed to the development 200 units of supportive modular housing for people who are homeless be dedicated to developing supportive housing for homeless and at - risk youth . to date in the government ’ s fiscal plan , no funding for shelter or supportive housing has been invested in housing and supporting homeless and at - risk youth . – 30 –about family services of greater vancouverfounded in 1928 , family services of greater vancouver is one of bc ’ s largest social services organizations . last year alone we served over 12 , 000 families , youth , children , seniors , and newcomers at 14 locations across metro vancouver . family services ’ over 50 programs and services work to end violence against women , children and seniors through victims services and specialized counselling ; supporting homeless and at - risk youth with services including detox , housing , and pre - employment programs ; creating more inclusive communities through free parenting workshops , groups and community kitchens ; supporting youth with developmental disabilities and their families become more independent ; and supporting at - risk families facing multiple challenges . bre hamilton family services of greater vancouver 604 723 9393 bhamilton@fsgv . ca
__label__no_relevant full text : 2020 b . c . speech from the throne speech from the throneher honour the honourable janet austin , obclieutenant governor at the opening of the fifth session , forty - first parliament of the province of british columbiafebruary 11 , 2020 . ________________________________________we begin by acknowledging the lekwungen peoples , the songhees and esquimalt first nations , upon whose traditional territories we are gathered today . as we open the fifth session of the 41st parliament , we pause to remember the british columbians we have lost in the past year . at least 57 canadians perished on ukrainian international airlines flight 752 in iran on january 8 . fifteen of them called b . c . home . our thoughts are with their families and the iranian - canadian community , who are coping with tremendous loss . we recognize appointed and elected officials who served british columbians and this legislature : conflict of interest commissioner paul fraser , qc ; the honourable ted hughes ; former mlas gillian trumper and norman jacobsen . we thank those who stepped forward to serve at the local level : oak bay mayor nils jensen , and vancouver councillors may brown and b . c . lee . we honour the public servants who passed away this year , including forester peter fuglem , bc parks employee micah messent , bc mail employee martin payne , and conservationist al martin . we are grateful to the people who shaped b . c . arts and culture : writer wayson choy , actor godfrey gao , singer john mann , coast salish artist gus modeste , and painter gordon smith . we recognize leaders in sport : soccer player brandon bassi , mountain biker jordie lunn , and basketball player and olympian eli pasquale . and indigenous leaders and elders : former shíshálh chief stan dixon , dr . frank william maloway , oscar mercer , and george saddleman . these british columbians inspired us with their achievements and honoured us with their friendship . we are grateful to have known them . * * * british columbia is a province with limitless potential . but for a long time , many people have been feeling stuck . the benefits of b . c . ' s economy were not fairly shared . tax breaks went to the people at the top , while life became more expensive for everyone else . at the same time , improvements to health care were delayed . schools were closed or overcrowded . wages didn ' t grow . and opportunity seemed increasingly out of reach . for many british columbians , their future in this province was in question . young people weren ' t sure they could stay in the communities where they grew up . families wondered how long they could hang on . and too many people felt that no matter how hard they worked , they were falling behind . two and a half years ago , government set out to change this . supported by the confidence and supply agreement with the bc green party caucus , this government started making different choices . it started putting people first again . in its first 100 days , government took big money out of politics , toughened lobbying rules , and set the terms for a referendum on electoral reform . in the first 100 days , government raised taxes on the top 2% and used the revenues to fund the schools , hospitals and public services people needed . in the first 100 days , government raised the minimum wage , removed unfair bridge tolls , lifted income assistance and disability rates , and reduced interest on student loans . and in the first 100 days , government eliminated fees for adult basic education and english language learning , and made post - secondary education for former kids - in - care tuition free . in its first year , government rolled up its sleeves and took on the bigger problems – problems that were years in the making . this government brought forward a housing plan to increase supply , curb demand , and crack down on speculation and fraud . and a universal child care plan , to provide affordable , quality care to every family that needs it . in its first year , government got to work on a climate action plan to reduce emissions and create jobs and opportunities for people . and in its first year , government took the first steps toward meaningful reconciliation with indigenous peoples . government did all of these things because british columbians deserve security , stability , and opportunity . they deserve to be confident in their future . to get there , people deserve a government that works as hard as they do . a government that shares their priorities and is working to make life better . after two and a half years , your government ' s choices are leading to progress for people . as british columbians greet this new day , and a new decade , they are starting to move forward . ________________________________________progress for peopletoday , more british columbians are waking up with a safe and secure roof over their heads . thousands of people who were homeless now have supportive housing and the chance at a fresh start . renters have more rights and protections , and annual rent increases have been held down to the rate of inflation . empty homes are turning into housing for people . today , when british columbians check their mail , they are relieved to no longer receive an msp bill , because government has eliminated this tax . starting in october , they can expect a new piece of mail , with a child opportunity benefit for families that need it most . and when they review their bank statements , many families have more money left at the end of the month than they did three years ago . as british columbians open their front door , they can see progress taking root . new child care spaces are opening in their neighbourhoods . this government has funded more than 10 , 000 new spaces throughout the province . as the morning school bell rings , thousands of b . c . parents are dropping off their children at new and safe schools . students are learning in the smallest average class sizes in a generation , and they are succeeding at an unprecedented rate . with the support of b . c . ' s dedicated and professional teachers and support staff , nearly 90% of b . c . students are completing secondary school , including almost 70% of indigenous students , the highest rate in b . c . history . as they commute to school and work , british columbians have more ways to get around . there are more buses , skytrain cars , rapid transit , and active transportation options than ever before . more drivers are choosing electric vehicles and taking advantage of government rebates that make clean options more affordable . on their commutes , british columbians pass by building sites for new and upgraded hospitals . in less than three years , this government has moved forward on 13 hospital projects . in these facilities , there are more surgeries and diagnostic tests for waiting patients . and thanks to the feedbc program , more people in our hospitals are eating healthy , nutritious , local b . c . food . as they move through their communities , british columbians will notice infrastructure projects underway , like the pattullo bridge replacement , the highway 1 expansion , and the final phase of the kicking horse canyon project . these projects are being built with community benefit agreements , which provide good jobs for local people and apprenticeship opportunities for women , indigenous peoples and groups under - represented in the trades . today , british columbians live in a province that provides better support for the most vulnerable . b . c . has a homelessness action plan , and a strategy to lift people and families out of poverty . there is a pathway to hope for mental health , with more supports for children , youth and families to set them up for a lifetime of health and wellness . with changes to child welfare rules , government is helping more families stay together . b . c . has the lowest number of children and youth in care in 30 years . and more youth from care than ever before are getting educational , cost of living , and other supports through agreements with young adults . today , british columbians have more opportunities to participate in recreation , sport , arts and culture . with more funding for the bc arts council , artists and creators have more support to inspire others . in the future , people will be able to visit renewed cultural institutions , like the royal bc museum and the vancouver art gallery , as well as a new chinese canadian museum . today , british columbians are more connected , to their communities and each other . coastal communities have had ferry service restored , and fares have been frozen or reduced . thousands more families in remote , rural , and indigenous communities have high - speed internet , creating opportunities for business and economic growth . bc bus north is giving people a safe , affordable option to get around northern regions of the province . and despite global headwinds , british columbians are enjoying the benefits of a strong and resilient economy . wages have gone up . unemployment is the lowest in canada , and has been for two years running . b . c . leads the country in economic growth . all the while , this government has delivered balanced budgets , and maintained b . c . ' s triple - a credit rating . * * * at home , in our communities , and throughout our province , people are starting to make progress . they are more able to face the challenges ahead , because they know they aren ' t alone . they have a government that is a partner in their future . it ' s been two and a half years , but the hard work has only just begun . ________________________________________making life more affordableyears of rising costs , and no relief , left many people falling behind . this government has done a lot to help families save money . but costs are still too high , and british columbians deserve the chance to get ahead . this government is working hard to make everyday life a little easier . more housing for peoplegovernment has been working hard to fix the housing crisis . for too long , speculators treated b . c . real estate like a stock market , and criminals used it as a place to store dirty money . this government ' s speculation and vacancy tax is turning empty homes into housing . and a public inquiry into money laundering will make sure b . c . ' s economy is working for people , not organized crime . this government is building housing for people of all incomes , from people experiencing homelessness to middle - income families . every week , new projects are being funded , builders are breaking ground , and people are moving into safe and secure homes . non - profit partnerships , government - funded , and private - sector projects are creating tens of thousands of new , affordable homes for people of all ages and stages of life . all told , this government ' s plan will see 114 , 000 new homes built over 10 years . as this work continues , government is taking additional steps to make sure every british columbian has a safe , affordable home . this government is working with municipalities to speed up approvals and encourage them to make full use of rental zoning . and this year , government will act on the recommendations of the rental housing task force , to provide more security for renters , and relieve them of the burden of fighting unfair or illegal renovictions on their own . cleaning up icbcwhile housing is every family ' s first affordability challenge , car insurance is a close second . b . c . drivers are simply paying too much . premiums soared after years of mismanagement and neglect that saw hundreds of millions taken out of icbc . by 2017 , the corporation was nearly insolvent and racking up billion - dollar deficits . last year , this government introduced major reforms to get icbc out of the red . these first steps have been effective . the corporation is on more stable fiscal footing , and there will be no increase to basic rates this year . but insurance rates are still far too expensive . that is why this government is transforming icbc . it is taking costly legal fees out of the system , and giving people enhanced coverage for medical care . next year , when drivers renew , they can expect insurance rates to go down by an average of 20% . lower rates , the care you need , and more fairness and accountability . that ' s what a better icbc is all about . fair pricing for consumersthis government is taking steps to stop big companies from gouging consumers . legislation passed last year will give b . c . drivers more information about how companies set gasoline prices . this spring , new rules for live - event ticket sales will come into force , stopping ticket bots in their tracks and making costs more transparent . and later this month , b . c . government representatives will travel to ottawa to fight for more affordable cellphone plan options and transparency in billing . lifting up wagesa life that ' s more affordable is one where people earn a fair wage . in june 2020 , b . c . ' s minimum wage will go up to $14 . 60 an hour . by 2021 , it will reach $15 . 20 an hour , fulfilling this government ' s commitment to b . c . ' s lowest - paid workers . this year , government will once again lift earnings exemptions for people on disability and income assistance , allowing people to earn more money and support them in re - entering the workforce . last year , this government passed legislation giving workers fleeing domestic violence up to 10 days of unpaid job - protected leave . this year , b . c . is taking the next step and providing these workers with paid leave , for up to five days . and this spring , government will take steps to provide more support to workers who have suffered job - related sickness or injury . creating affordable child caretwo years ago , this government put b . c . on the path to universal child care . tens of thousands of families are already feeling the benefits . fee reductions and the affordable child care benefit have put more money back in families ' pockets . and parents are bringing their skills back into the workforce , benefiting local business and the economy . there is more work to do to help british columbians find quality child care they can afford . government continues to train more early childhood educators , to make sure b . c . has the professional , caring and skilled child care workers it needs . those early childhood educators are now earning higher wages , with an additional $1 - per - hour increase coming april 1 for those working in licensed care . as work on universal child care continues , this government will work to increase the number of spaces for school - aged children , and partner with school districts to create more before - and after - school care . ________________________________________better public servicesyears of minimal increases to public services left communities frustrated , and people without the supports they needed . those years represent a lost opportunity for people , businesses and economic growth . this government is working hard to restore public services and make opportunities available to everyone . investing in educationthis government is speeding up investments in quality public education . since july 2017 , this government has funded more than 80 school capital projects , each one representing a newer , better , or safer school for b . c . students . in the coming year , british columbians will see even more seismic upgrades , school replacements , and land purchases for future schools . instead of falling behind , school districts are now looking ahead , and planning for new schools in growing communities . inside these new schools , students have more learning support , with 4 , 200 new teachers , almost 2 , 000 new education assistants , 700 new special education teachers , and nearly 200 teacher - psychologists and counsellors . their professional , skilled , and caring support is crucial to student success . teachers , parents , and school trustees have long advocated for better supports for b . c . students that need it most . this year , for the first time , children and youth in care will be recognized with a new funding supplement . and government will expand priority funding to children with mental - health challenges , and children from low - income families . this means that schools can provide more supports like trauma counselling , school breakfast or lunch programs , tutoring , and mentoring . and government will continue to provide dedicated funding supports for indigenous learners . opening doors to post - secondarywhen people have the opportunity to learn a new skill or trade , it benefits them , their families , and our province as a whole . more than 1 , 100 former youth in care are getting a post - secondary education tuition - free . and more than 20 , 000 people have upgraded their skills in tuition - free adult basic education and english language learning . hundreds of new training spaces in computer science , technology , engineering , and the skilled trades are helping people hone their skills and find a job that fits . and more funding for employment programs , co - ops and work - integrated learning opportunities are helping young people get a better start . this government ' s work to open the doors of opportunity to students and people continuing their learning isn ' t done . budget 2019 eliminated interest on all b . c . student loans , and budget 2020 will help people starting post - secondary , skills training and certificate programs . better health carethis government is making big investments in public health care , and with it , the health of every british columbian . since july 2017 , this government has moved forward on 13 hospital projects , and opened 12 urgent and primary care centres . five hip and knee replacement programs are up and running , with 14 more on the way . in the first year of its diagnostic strategy , government exceeded its targets for mri exams , with nearly 44 , 000 more performed throughout b . c . compared to 2017 - 18 . by purchasing more mri machines , and running existing ones longer , b . c . has improved wait times in all regions . this year , b . c . will complete even more , giving people the diagnostic care they ' ve been waiting for . this government is also making sure our elderly get the dignified care they deserve . last year , b . c . added funding for more than one million hours of direct care for seniors in long - term care homes . as a result , b . c . has now doubled the number of facilities that meet or exceed the target of 3 . 36 hours of direct care per resident day . and the number of long - term care homes that provided fewer than 2 . 9 hours per resident day has dropped from 75 to four . none of this would be possible without the skilled and dedicated health - care professionals that care for people every day . this government is doing everything it can to recruit more doctors , nurses , nurse practitioners , and other health - care professionals . government is opening up training seats for health - care assistants , specialty nurses , and health - care specialist positions . and government is treating workers fairly , by honouring collective agreements and protecting successorship rights . your government will keep working hard to deliver faster , better health care for people , closer to home . supporting mental healthpeople in b . c . expect an urgent and comprehensive response to the overdose crisis – one that includes prevention , enforcement , harm reduction , and treatment and recovery . this government ' s efforts are making a difference . since the crisis began , at least 4 , 700 deaths have been averted , thanks to expanded harm reduction and treatment options . your government is working hard to create a seamless system of mental health and addictions care , where no one gets left behind . the pathway to hope mental health roadmap includes early intervention and prevention for children and youth , in schools , homes and communities . youth and their families can access wraparound care at community foundry centres , with eight already open and 11 on the way . more people in b . c . can access low - or no - cost programs for mental health and addictions challenges . and more indigenous communities are planning , designing and delivering services based on their own mental health priorities . safer communitiesbritish columbians deserve to feel safe in the communities they call home . this government is acting to fight crime and gangs . government has expanded education and prevention programs , to help stop kids from entering gang life . this spring , new legislation will give police more tools to block the use of illegal firearms and ban guns from schools , colleges , universities , and hospitals . for years , policing resources have not kept up with growth in rural b . c . this year , government will increase support to police services and first nations policing for rural communities . a more inclusive provincefeeling safe in your community is also about having a place in your community . at a time when hate and intolerance is on the rise , this government is working to keep people safe and protect the diversity that makes b . c . strong . the lived experience of women , people of colour , gender - diverse people , and people with disabilities tells us we have more work to do to build a more inclusive province . that ' s why this government renewed the human rights commission , and created a provincewide anti - racism network to combat hate and prejudice . it ' s why this government pursues gender equity , and increased funding to organizations that help women and children leaving violence . it ' s why this government is working with partners to make communities more accessible to people of all abilities . it ' s why this government supports sogi initiatives in b . c . schools , and the united way period promise for free menstrual products in school washrooms . everyone has a place in this province – she , he , and they . it is not enough to believe in these values . governments must act on them . this government will continue the work to advance equality , diversity , human rights , and mutual respect . because a better b . c . is one where everyone is included and free to be who they are . ________________________________________reconciliation with indigenous peoplesreconciliation with indigenous peoples is a matter of rights , respect , and justice . it is a journey we are on together . and it must last for generations . for two and a half years , this government has worked in partnership with indigenous peoples to make progress on reconciliation . it has made major investments in indigenous priorities like language revitalization , funding for aboriginal friendship centres , culturally appropriate health care and mental - health supports , and indigenous housing on - and off - reserve . last year , b . c . transferred the first two years of funding , as part of a commitment that will see $3 billion in provincial gaming revenues shared with first nations over 25 years . this means first nations can invest in self - government , cultural revitalization , and services that make life better for families . reconciliation is rooted in the recognition of indigenous rights as human rights . this government committed to implementing the united nations declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples . many said it could not be done . but this government challenged the status quo . it partnered with the first nations leadership council to write a new law . and b . c . made history when this legislature unanimously endorsed the declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples act . it was a proud moment in this province ' s history . but the work has only just begun . the next step is an action plan , which government will develop in collaboration with indigenous peoples . ________________________________________a strong , sustainable economya strong economy cannot be built on a foundation of rampant real estate speculation . it cannot be won in a race to the bottom , with minimum standards and fewer workplace protections . and it cannot be gained through windfall profits earned on the backs of low - wage workers . instead , a strong economy comes from good - paying jobs that raise family incomes and everyone ' s standard of living . it is built with quality public services as a cornerstone ; services that help b . c . grow , attract , and keep its skilled workforce . a strong economy is rooted in competitiveness , a necessary ingredient for success in today ' s global marketplace . and it is in harmony with government ' s commitments to fight climate change and achieve meaningful reconciliation with indigenous peoples . these are the values that guide this government ' s actions to build a sustainable economy that puts people first . the challenges we face – from worsening weather , to global economic headwinds – make this work more urgent than ever . as this government charts a new course to a low - carbon economy , powered by cleanbc , british columbians can rest assured : not only will we weather these storms , we will create the conditions for people and industry to thrive . innovation and climate actioncleanbc is a critical part of this government ' s strategy to grow a sustainable economy with good jobs and opportunities for people . it ' s been one year since cleanbc was launched , and british columbians are starting to see that the way to a cleaner , better future is by innovating and working together . people have cleaner options for getting around , heating our homes , and fuelling industry . and more communities are investing in clean energy and green building projects . b . c . ' s world - leading clean - tech and renewable - energy industries will help our province reduce emissions and protect our clean air , water , and land . thanks to the confidence and supply agreement , b . c . ' s first innovation commissioner has helped advance tech and innovation , by building relationships and helping companies access talent and capital . and the emerging economy task force will help b . c . stay at the forefront of emerging economic developments and address the challenges and opportunities ahead . your government is looking at ways to build on the successes of both of these initiatives . as cleanbc enters its second year , government will bring people together to fight pollution , reduce emissions and build a sustainable , innovative , and prosperous economy . this year , government will release a plastics action plan to reduce plastic pollution and keep it out of b . c . ' s landfills and waterways . also this year , a climate adaptation strategy will make sure b . c . communities are ready for changes in weather and other climate impacts . this government will work with business to promote b . c . industries as competitive suppliers of low - carbon products . by positioning b . c . as a supplier of choice , this government will grow markets for b . c . products while reducing global emissions . in export markets where global players have not adopted carbon pricing , b . c . ' s energy - intensive industries need to stay competitive . government and business are partnering to support these industries , so that we can grow b . c . jobs while meeting our emission targets across all sectors . as the only g7 nation with free - trade access to the united states , europe and asia pacific , canada – and especially british columbia – has unique trade and investment opportunities around the world . this government ' s commitment to reduce carbon emissions can be a competitive advantage throughout b . c . ' s trade and investment network . as work gets underway on the lng canada project – the largest private - sector investment in canadian history – this government is seeking ways to reduce emissions overall . work continues on electrification initiatives to reduce emissions from b . c . ' s gas fields , in partnership with the federal government . b . c . and washington state are partnering on a clean grid initiative to use clean , affordable energy to power the region ' s economy . and government is supporting development of lng bunkering in b . c . ports , reducing greenhouse gas emissions here and everywhere lng - powered vessels operate . strength in natural resourcesthe promise of new economic opportunities extends to b . c . ' s natural resources . mining , forestry , agriculture , and energy continue to generate good jobs for people and financial returns to government . these industries can play a leading role in supporting innovation that helps b . c . achieve its economic , climate , and reconciliation goals . this government ' s food security task force has proposed new ways to use technology to maximize b . c . ' s rich agricultural land – wisely preserved nearly 50 years ago – so we can produce more food and grow new business opportunities . from the copper needed for electric cars , to the metallurgical coal that makes wind turbines , the world needs b . c . minerals and metals . this government is working to keep mining competitive and create good jobs , by making mineral exploration tax credits permanent and permitting more efficient . as a generator of clean hydroelectricity , bc hydro is helping us switch to renewable energy , in b . c . and in global markets . and to fuel the transformation underway in forestry , this government has directed that all future public infrastructure projects be built with b . c . engineered wood wherever possible . the transition from high volume to high value has been difficult for forest workers and their communities . a wave of mill closures and curtailments driven by changes in global markets , reduced supply , wildfire losses and the mountain pine beetle , has left many people hurting . it could be argued that the previous government did not take adequate steps to address the changes it well knew were coming . this has made the current situation even more difficult for people today . this government ' s first priority is helping communities that are struggling . there are job placement and skills training opportunities for workers , bridge loans for logging contractors on the coast , and grants for hard - hit communities . as government addresses the needs of workers and communities , it is also taking the first steps in fixing systemic issues the previous government ignored . in the interior , government is bringing together forest companies , workers , local governments and first nations to find local solutions that help the industry stay competitive and maximize available resources . and on the coast , a revitalization strategy will see fewer logs shipped offshore , and better use of waste wood . there is no overnight fix for problems created by years of neglect . these solutions will help forestry – a foundational b . c . industry – get back on the right track . planning for growththe good jobs and opportunities of a sustainable economy should be available to everyone , in every community . this government is promoting quality economic growth that increases wages , generates revenues to fund public services , and shares the benefits of growth broadly throughout the province . by promoting a strong , sustainable tourism sector , this government is offering visitors authentic and unforgettable experiences that drive economic growth in all regions . by expanding high - speed internet in nearly 500 rural , remote , and indigenous communities since july 2017 , this government is closing the digital divide and creating opportunities for growth . by supporting the innovation corridor in the fraser valley , and creating a new quantum computing institute at sfu surrey , this government is helping distribute the benefits of a sustainable economy throughout the lower mainland . for people in the valley , that means more opportunities for a good - paying job , more options for housing , a shorter commute , and more time with family . b . c . will add one million people to its population over the next 10 years , putting pressure on b . c . ' s transportation and trade corridors . british columbians are already spending too much time in gridlock . this government is getting people moving . government ' s partnerships with local governments means that work is already underway on a long - term vision for transit and transportation in the lower mainland . british columbians can look forward to more options like rapid transit , hov lanes and commuter rail out to the fraser valley , and high - speed rail connections with our neighbours to the south . not all of this growth is happening in the lower mainland . this government is taking an all - of - b . c . approach with an integrated transportation plan to reduce congestion , and build for trade and business growth . to keep people and goods moving , government is extending its transportation capital plan from three years to five years . this change will allow for better planning of major projects like the george massey crossing . * * * british columbians are proud of this province , our people and our way of life . they love where they live , and they want to stay . as you begin a new legislative session , this government calls on you to keep the people of b . c . at the centre of your work . their future – our future – depends on the choices we make . this government will continue the work it started two and a half years ago to make life better for people . with more child care , more housing , and good jobs with high wages . with affordable , livable communities , resilient in the face of climate change . where all indigenous peoples are full partners in shaping our province ' s future . a province full of people who are skilled , confident and ready for the road ahead . a place of hope and opportunity . a stronger province – for everyone . 
__label__relevant winnipeg parents of girl , 16 , fatally shot by police in shock and grieving first , william hudson learned his daughter was killed . then he got the news that one of his best friends was also dead . his 16 - year - old daughter and friend were killed in two separate winnipeg police shootings that occurred less than 12 hours apart from wednesday evening into thursday morning . police shot hudson ' s daughter eishia on wednesday night at the intersection of lagimodiere boulevard and fermor avenue , following what they said was a " full blown pursuit " that started after police said a group of teens robbed the liquor mart in winnipeg ' s sage creek neighbourhood . police said the vehicle , which had been stolen a day prior and used initially in a robbery at another city liquor mart wednesday morning , collided with multiple other vehicles . four other teens — 15 and 16 years old — were arrested and charged with multiple offences . bystanders captured the shooting and its aftermath on video and posted it to social media . hudson said he hasn ' t seen the footage . watch | gunshots heard in video filmed by eyewitness : gunshots are heard on lagimodiere boulevard at a police shooting that killed a 16 - year - old girl . 1 : 48 " i don ' t even want to see that video , " he said . " as a parent , can you imagine wanting to see that video ? it ' s hard . i don ' t already like watching the news about it . i don ' t believe it . you know what i mean ? " he said he ' s having a tough time believing that his daughter , who loved sports , got caught up with the wrong crowd . " i loved my daughter . she was very smart — always liked athletics . i had her in hockey programs . she was going to graduate next year . " ' a very generous guy ' he is also trying to come to terms with the death of one of his best friends . the 36 - year - old man was shot by winnipeg police early thursday morning after officers responded to a domestic violence call on anderson avenue between salter and aikins streets . police chief danny smyth said officers arrived to find a screaming female and discovered a man with a firearm . smyth said the man exited the house and confronted police outside , and one officer fired his gun . in a video posted on facebook of the incident that cbc news has verified , at least three shots can be heard and several pleas for the man to drop his gun and to put his hands up . watch | eyewitness footage of police shooting outside home : dylan olson took this video of the police shooting on anderson avenue in the early hours of april 9 . 0 : 33little can be seen from the video , which was filmed from across the street . police have not released the name of the man , and cbc news is not publishing his name until his family has been notified . hudson said he was also puzzled about his friend ' s death , remembering him as a helping hand on construction jobs they would do together . " a very generous guy , you know what i mean ? if he had a sweater , he ' d give you it . " christie zebrasky said her daughter eishia had many challenges in her life , but she had a ' huge heart . ' ( submitted by christie zebrasky ) daughter had ' huge heart ' eishia ' s mom christie zebrasky said her daughter had many challenges in her life . " eishia , she never gave up . she was a strong girl . " zebrasky said eishia had nieces and nephews who meant the world to her . " she was athletic . she had a huge heart . " both she and hudson want to know why winnipeg police fired at their daughter , saying the use of force wasn ' t warranted . " like , you don ' t shoot when you have a vehicle already stopped . there was no threat , " said hudson , referring to what he ' s been told was captured in the video . " it was all kids in the car . i just find it wrong . " unclear if teens were armed , chief saysat a news conference thursday , smyth said he didn ' t know if any of the youths in the suv were armed and explained when an officer would use their weapon . " generally speaking , use of force or deadly use of force is appropriate when an officer fears for their own life or the life and safety of others , " he said . eishia ' s parents said winnipeg police didn ' t inform them about their daughter ' s death wednesday , and said they were left to call around city hospitals trying to find out where she was . " i wasn ' t getting answers until iiu [independent investigation unit of manitoba] came here and told me that my daughter was dead . like , i couldn ' t get answers until those people came to my door and told me that my daughter was dead , " zebrasky said . " that was my worst fear . eishia was my baby . " funeral to comply with covid - 19 ruleshudson said he ' s now trying to plan a funeral for his daughter that will adhere to physical distancing guidelines to prevent the spread of covid - 19 . he knows that no more than 10 people will be permitted to gather at once to say goodbye to his girl and is hoping the rules don ' t change before her service . " we don ' t know what ' s going to happen by next week . we don ' t know what ' s going to happen by monday . we don ' t know what ' s going to happen because anything can change all the time . " winnipeg police chief danny smyth said it was a tragic 12 hours in the city . ( trevor brine / cbc ) while smyth released few other details about the two fatal incidents , he spoke about their impact . " this has been a tragic 12 - hour period of time for our community . two unrelated events in separate parts of the city , and i can tell you that the police officers involved did not come to work expecting to be involved in shootings , especially shootings that resulted in fatalities . " the police watchdog , iiu , has taken over the investigations in both shootings . 
__label__no_relevant two dead , including 16 - year - old girl , in two winnipeg police shootings winnipeg — a 16 - year - old girl and a man have died after two separate shootings involving police officers in winnipeg . winnipeg — a 16 - year - old girl and a man have died after two separate shootings involving police officers in winnipeg . police chief danny smyth said thursday the teen ' s death was a tragic end to a police pursuit that began after a liquor store robbery . smyth said a group of people swarmed the store wednesday night , grabbed bottles and threatened staff . he alleged the thieves fled in a stolen vehicle . a nearby police cruiser followed and police allege the stolen suv rammed it . a police chase continued for a few minutes before the suspect vehicle collided with a number of cars and stopped . manitoba ' s independent investigation unit said while officers arrested the passengers , an officer shot the teen who was driving . she was taken to hospital , where she died . two other girls and two boys , who are 15 and 16 , face charges including robbery and theft of a vehicle . manitoba authorities have been cracking down after an increase in brazen liquor store thefts . last year , manitoba liquor and lotteries ceo manny atwal said the stores were " under siege . " in many cases , groups entered stores , filled backpacks and bags and simply walked away . a liquor store employee was knocked unconscious in one such robbery last november . new security measures were put in place in many stores across winnipeg , including more secure entrances . smyth could not say whether the liquor store involved wednesday had increased security . in a second shooting thursday morning , officers fired at a 36 - year - old man while they were responding to a domestic violence call , smyth said . when officers arrived at the home , they heard a woman screaming and in distress , he said . after forcing their way in , officers discovered a man with a gun , an injured woman and a teenage girl . smyth said the officers left to try to calm the situation . but the man eventually came out the front door , confronted police , and was shot by an officer . the man later died in hospital . the independent investigation unit said it is investigating both shootings . smyth said that in general , " deadly use of force is appropriate when an officer fears for their own life or the life and safety of others . " the watchdog agency will determine what happened , he said . twelve officers are being removed from regular duties as part of the investigations , as well as to give them time to deal with what happened , smyth said . " the police officers involved did not come to work expecting to be involved in shootings . " this report by the canadian press was first published april 9 , 2020kelly geraldine malone , the canadian press
__label__no_relevant the conversation : trauma - informed classrooms can better support kids in care september 3 , 2019 —the following article from melanie janzen , associate professor , faculty of education , dawn sutherland , professor and department head of ctl , faculty of education , and kathryn levine , associate professor with the faculty of social work , was published online by the conversation : as teachers return to school , they ’ re thinking about the students who they ’ ll be getting to know . in our province , manitoba , there are some students who are becoming more prominent in the minds of teachers , particularly the students who arrive at school in the care of child and family service agencies . our team of researchers from the faculties of education and social work at the university of manitoba are learning about how educators in one school division are working to better support children in care . in part , that is through understanding and enacting trauma - informed practices in classrooms and schools . that means engaging children in ways that acknowledge how trauma may have shaped their experiences . children in care and traumamanitoba has among the highest rates of children in care in the world . in 2015 , marni brownell , a professor at the department of community health sciences and a researcher at the manitoba centre for health policy ( mchp ) at the university of manitoba , led a team that studied the educational outcomes of children in care in the province . read more : canada guilty of forging crisis in indigenous foster carethe mchp provided clear data on what many families , students and education and child welfare professionals already knew : that the educational outcomes for children in care were abysmal . the study found that whereas 89 per cent of manitoba ’ s students graduate on time , only 33 per cent of students who are or who have been in care realize that same achievement . we collaborated with one manitoba school division that has decided to prioritise the needs of children in care in order to improve their educational outcomes and experiences . trauma and hyperarousalmany children , adolescents and families who are involved with the child welfare system have been exposed to multiple and chronic traumatic experiences . these can range from witnessing domestic violence and addiction , to experiencing neglect and emotional , physical , sexual or psychological abuse and intergenerational trauma . this includes the legacy associated with indian residential schools and systemic underfunding of first nations infrastructure . canada ’ s truth and reconciliation commission , advocates and researchers have linked both to cultural genocide . children and youth have made it clear that when they are removed from what is assessed as an unsafe environment like their home , this does not result in feelings of safety . the trauma associated with allegations and investigations of abuse , being separated from family and siblings , being placed with strangers and having to conform to different expectations all act to maintain a state of hyperarousal in the child . trauma has pervasive physiological , psychological and emotional impacts : research from the national child traumatic stress network shows that children who have experienced trauma can have difficulties identifying and managing their feelings , controlling their impulses , forming relationships and concentrating and interpreting social situations , among other things . in the short term , children may not have the coping or social skills to engage with teaching staff or peers . children who have experienced trauma often have impaired academic performance and are likely to internalise these difficulties as failure . in the long term , these challenges are likely to result in low academic achievement and higher rates of absenteeism both of which are significant factors influencing school drop outs . clearly , teachers must be sensitive to the trauma experienced by children and their families who are involved with the child welfare system . a trauma - informed lensthrough practice and research and in response to the lived experiences and advocacy of the families , social workers ’ conceptual understandings of children and families involved with the child welfare system are shifting . a trauma - informed perspective prompts professionals to shift from asking what is wrong with people involved with the child welfare system , to considering what has happened to the child and family . the question “ what is wrong ? ” implies that once identified , the problem can be fixed by focusing on the individuals . it also may imply a fault of the individuals rather than systemic inequities , approaches and issues . conversely , the question “ what happened ? ” recognizes that the seemingly challenging behaviours , maladaptive coping responses and interpersonal relationship difficulties are responses to traumatic experiences . sense of safetyin our preliminary research , we are documenting schools ’ collaborations with various child welfare agencies and their efforts to better support children in care . educators are starting to engage in trauma - informed practices as a way to recognize that the most urgent need is to establish the child ’ s sense of safety in the school . what makes a school environment feel safe ? according to australian psychologist howard bath , the consistency , reliability , predictability , availability , honesty and transparency of adults who care for children contribute to both emotional and physical safety of children . when children feel safe , they can form trusting relationships . it is only in the context of these connections that they can then learn to understand and manage their trauma responses . school leaders that we interviewed shared many examples of how they are enlisting what bath identifies as the three pillars of care into their school and classrooms : safety , connections and coping . educators described making sure that children had a number of “ go - to ” adults in the building in addition to their classroom teachers , as well as “ go - to ” places if they felt overwhelmed . others talked about the importance of making space for and really listening to kids ’ questions , such as “ where are my siblings ? ” then , these educators would work with the social worker to find answers for children . connections and envisioning the futureeducators also spoke of the importance of children forming connections with others and building trusting relationships . they talked about the importance of making sure kids were connecting to other kids and setting aside time and space to ensure that happens , for example , in the form of supportive recess groups . some educators organised regular lunches with children . one high school principal explained how he worked to get children in care involved . he described one student whose confidence was excelling as she led the environmental club ’ s campaign to ban plastic bags . another school told us how they supported a group of high school youth in care in forming their own advocacy club where the youth could bring allies . this led to these students supporting each other in their advocacy , academic pursuits and in conversations about life after high school . sometimes trauma manifests in what looks like to adults as misbehaviours . the educators we spoke to recognized how children or youth who have been traumatized often need support in learning how to identify , cope with and manage emotions . these educators reassured children that their school was a place where all of their feelings were welcome and worked with them to better understand and express these feelings . we encourage all educators to think about the variety of experiences students may have had this summer . 
__label__no_relevant lt . - gov . filmon healing and in high spirits hey there , time traveller ! this article was published 6 / 1 / 2020 ( 198 days ago ) , so information in it may no longer be current . just minutes into an interview at government house , lt . - gov . janice filmon wants to know : " are we having fun yet ? " seconds later , her husband gary , a former tory premier , comes into the sitting room to kiss her goodbye . he accidentally trips over a photographer ’ s equipment on the floor and catches himself flying across the room , looking like bobby orr scoring an overtime winner in 1970 . mikaela mackenzie / winnipeg free press lt . - gov . janice filmon was appointed to her position in 2015 by stephen harper . the assembled quartet — filmon , one of her assistants and two free press staffers — can ’ t help but laugh , as does the former premier . so yes , we are having fun . janice filmon knows , perhaps better than anyone in the province , how to put others at ease . her way with people is partly why former prime minister stephen harper appointed her manitoba ’ s lieutenant - governor in june 2015 . " janice filmon is a strong leader who has been extensively involved in her community for decades , " harper said about the appointment . " as a champion of health care and education , she has been an exemplary volunteer who has helped a wide range of manitobans through her tireless efforts . " filmon is the former chair of the board of directors of the cancercare manitoba foundation , and she is the founding chair of the nellie mcclung foundation . those are just two of her many community pursuits . filmon , a former social worker with the children ’ s aid society , has received the order of manitoba and order of canada . a lieutenant - governor ’ s first term can be no more than five years and filmon is rounding that corner in the next six months . she ’ s uncertain whether she will be reappointed and doesn ’ t want to talk about it for the record . the prime minister ’ s office also wouldn ’ t comment on whether she ’ ll be appointed to a second term . filmon does want to talk about her bucket - list for the next six months , regardless of whether they are her last as the queen ’ s representative in manitoba . not among the bucket list items is viewing the crown on netflix , by the way . filmon said she ’ d like to see the show , but rarely watches television , unless it involves sports . she also made a point during her husband ’ s political career to not read the news , but she makes exceptions nowadays . she prefers books and currently has about six on the go , including a daily meditations book , and jean teillet ’ s the north - west is our mother . but back to the bucket - list . mikaela mackenzie / winnipeg free press filmon wants to write a book and be a significant figure in the lives of her nine grandchildren , and one great - grandchild . the lieutenant - governor has made a point of hosting public events at government house . she invites manitobans to wander in , usually for her conversations and celebrations series of talks with distinguished guests , including teillet , who discussed the history of the métis nation , and keith macpherson , who will be there tuesday to discuss mindfulness . she plans to host more events , which have always sold out . but filmon , 76 , has had to pare back her busy schedule in recent months after undergoing surgery for breast cancer sept . 30 . thirty years after her last round of cancer treatment , she was under the scalpel again . " i , at the time , didn ’ t know that i had a problem . i was feeling good . and that ’ s the thing about cancer : it can be cultured in a perfectly healthy body , right ? one minute you ’ re fine and then , a week later you go to the doctor and they tell you something , " she said . " that ’ s the thing about cancer : it can be cultured in a perfectly healthy body , right ? one minute you ’ re fine and then , a week later you go to the doctor and they tell you something . " filmon said she ’ s doing well now and pacing herself . doctors said it would take two to three months for her to start feeling like herself again and get her energy back . on dec . 5 , she made her first public appearance since the surgery , granting royal assent to bill 7 , the employment standards code amendment act . mikaela mackenzie / winnipeg free press the lieutenant - governor has made a point of hosting public events at government house . the bill gives employment leave to victims of interpersonal violence , whether or not they know the perpetrator . previous legislation only granted such leaves to victims of domestic violence . filmon said she recognized how significant the bill was when she made her first visit back to the legislative chamber . " so i was aware of that for sure , and equally aware when people stood up and clapped , " she said of mlas in the legislature . " that will be one of the memories in my memory bank that was quite extraordinary , forever . because that was about the humanity . that wasn ’ t about bills or about anything else — that was about a person to a person . " " i can ’ t tell you how i ’ m just so lucky . i have to be the luckiest person . . . and if i get another 30 years out of this cancer operation , i ’ ll have been really lucky . " when she was installed in 2015 , there was a less - than - full turnout among members , some of whom were in their constituencies for community events . a small number of tory members were absent , while more than half the ndp government caucus was away . filmon instinctively shuts down any question about having won them over ; she doesn ’ t want to comment on politics . but she appears to have charmed many manitobans , including strangers , who sent flowers and gifts while she was recovering from surgery . mikaela mackenzie / winnipeg free press filmon is uncertain whether she will be reappointed and doesn ’ t want to talk about it for the record . the prime minister ’ s office also wouldn ’ t comment on whether she ’ ll be appointed to a second term . " i have had incredible , and i don ’ t know — i want a better word than that . . . leave it at ‘incredible ’ and i might be able to come back to it — support , encouragement , love , " she said . " and honestly , to think in 2019 , now 2020 , that you can be in some kind of public office and feel loved ? i mean , honestly , it ’ s quite remarkable . " the lieutenant - governor said she ’ s done a lot of reflecting recently , not to mention brainstorming about " little mini explosions " of monthly events she can host at government house this year , which is manitoba ’ s 150th anniversary . those will include a conference with gov . gen . julie payette and all her provincial and territorial representatives in winnipeg from june 22 - 24 . otherwise , her bucket - list is full of more personal tasks . she wants to write a book and be a significant figure in the lives of her nine grandchildren , and one great - grandchild . and she wants to take good care of herself physically . " i can ’ t tell you how i ’ m just so lucky . i have to be the luckiest person , " filmon said of her life so far . " and if i get another 30 years out of this cancer operation , i ’ ll have been really lucky . " — with files from dylan robertson , the canadian pressjessica . botelho@freepress . mb . catwitter : @_jessbu
__label__relevant new brunswick city council member would like to see cop fired new brunswick , nj – a member of the city council said she would like a police officer removed from the department after he was the subject of an internal affairs review following allegations he used a city - issued cell phone to repeatedly contact a woman and send her at least one nude photo of himself . rebecca escobar , who has been a council member since 2010 , revealed during wednesday night ’ s meeting that she had spoken with director anthony caputo about the investigation into allegations made by the woman – a city employee - against lt . raymond trigg . from that conversation , escobar said she learned that trigg has been replaced as the director of the domestic violence unit . sign up for new brunswick newsletter our newsletter delivers the local news that you can trust . you have successfully signed up for the tapinto new brunswick newsletter . when city resident jalisa watson asked the five - member council if that was enough , escobar responded . “ i would like to see him be removed from the police department just because of the behavior exhibited . that ’ s my personal opinion and it ’ s not based on the facts , criminology , the statutes and everything else , ” escobar said . “ all of us , we need to be responsible for our actions and accountable for what we do regardless of who it is . and when you are in a position of authority and power over others , even more so . so , you have to be careful . i am not exempt . i have to be accountable for my behavior and all of us have to . some of us have to be held at a little bit of a higher standard , even though we ’ re human . we make mistakes , but we have to be a little bit more careful when we are dealing with the work that we do , especially if we are working in the community . ” watson and her sister , jocelyn , were among the most vocal during the meeting , stating that they had sent letters to gov . phil murphy , lt . gov . sheila oliver and others , seeking further investigation into the matter . “ we will not stop until he is removed , ” jocelyn said . when she indicated that she had some personal knowledge about the allegations and knew the woman who made the allegations against trigg , capt . j . t . miller , the public information officer for the new brunswick police department told her , “ it sounds like you have some personal information if you do have information , please contact the internal affairs office so we can continue an investigation . if there is new information , we will re - open the investigation into lt . trigg . ” trigg has been accused of calling the woman 43 times in one day and showing up at her home uninvited , according to a published report in new brunswick today . the report did not identify the woman . this was the second straight council meeting where the allegations against trigg were raised by residents who were outraged that the review yielded a “ not sustained ” finding . during the july 1 council meeting , escobar said that trigg displayed “ the behavior of a stalker . ” " that ’ s not the way anybody should behave in the police department or anywhere , ” escobar said . “ and i ’ m waiting to see – i personally , from what i ’ ve read and to the best of my knowledge , some of the texts that were printed that i ’ ve read , that ’ s the behavior of a stalker . ” 
__label__relevant new app aids women in violent relationships credit : pixabay / cc0 public domainwomen experiencing violence from intimate partners now have access to a unique , interactive safety app that can help them assess their risks , set priorities and plan next steps . the myplan canada app was co - developed at western , with nursing professor marilyn ford - gilboe as the canadian project lead . the app allows users to input their specific circumstances—such as whether they are in immediate danger , live with the abuser , have young children at home , have a job , are in a rural or urban area , or have access to a vehicle—and will walk them through a personalized plan to protect their safety and health . " the purpose of myplan is to give women space and time to think about their situation , to think about their options . it ' s a starting place , " said ford - gilboe , women ' s health research chair in rural health at the arthur labatt family school of nursing . the free app , available on apple and android , is available throughout canada and includes location - specific resources customized for every province and territory . it is also available in the united states , where it is searchable as myplan and was developed in partnership and with research by nursing professor nancy glass of johns hopkins university . just 1 - in - 5 women experiencing intimate - partner violence connects with a service such as a helpline , shelter or domestic - violence program . the reasons are often complex , ford - gilboe said . the app is meant to augment—not replace—the social , police , legal and medical help available , by equipping women to decide on steps that are right for them , including whether , and where , to seek support if they choose . the app ' s features include options for a quick or detailed danger assessment ; a safety plan ; and where to find helpful confidential services in person , online or by phone . private and secure , the app even has safeguards protecting women from unwanted snooping on their smartphones . for added safety , users can also click on a quick - exit button that leads to a generic google - search page . " there isn ' t anything as interactive or personalized as this , " ford - gilboe said . " it ' s one of the few apps that has been tested through research . " research partners in canada include nursing professors colleen varcoe from the university of british columbia ( ubc ) and kelly scott - storey at the university of new brunswick ( unb ) . a francophone version is in development through université de laval . ongoing research funding has come through the canadian institutes of health research ( cihr ) and the app ' s development is supported and promoted in part by the federal department of women and gender equality . the canadian version of the app builds on an online set of tools called ican plan for safety—developed at western , ubc and unb with the help of hundreds of women survivors of violence and other experts—to help women assess their risks and danger in violent relationships , and to discover and use strategies for safety . importantly , tools in the online site and app also help women gain insights into their health and wellbeing and take the temperature of their anxiety , chronic pain or depression . in research studies , women who used these tools reported better mental health , increased confidence in safety planning , stronger sense of control over their lives and less coercion from their abusive partners . these resources also help women feel empowered to assess their risk and make changes to improve their health and safety , ford - gilboe said . " we know women experiencing violence are strong and resilient—and sometimes support from the right place at the right time is something that makes an incredible difference to them . sometimes it ' s in person and sometimes it ' s not . it would be my hope that this app could provide some of that knowledge or insider info . " that ' s particularly important as the covid - 19 pandemic has made women more isolated and potentially more vulnerable by having to stay in close proximity to an abuser . myplan will be under continuous improvements , with new information and resources added as research continues and community collaborations grow . it is another example where evidence - based data should be used to find solutions to real - world issues , ford - gilboe said . " the research i do ought to be used for social good . mobilizing that into something that makes a difference is important to me , " she said . explore further covid - 19 : researchers seek to protect women from abuse with retooled safety appmore information : myplan canada : myplan canada : myplanapp . ca / 
__label__relevant n . b . has highest rate of family murder - suicides in the country fredericton - - new brunswick has the highest rate of " family - related murder - suicides " in the country . it ' s an issue the province says it needs to address and it ' s turning to other atlantic provinces for help . pointe - sapin , oak bay , and rothesay are just a few communities rocked by murder - suicides over the last six months in new brunswick . " i worked in victim services in the 90s and domestic violence was prevalent then , " said sherry wilson , new brunswick ' s minister responsible for women ' s equality . since then , wilson says the issue of family - related violence has only gotten worse in the province . " we have to do better as a province , as government , to identify , what are the challenges ? " wilson said . " why is this still happening ? why has it increased ? " in addition to having the most family - related murder suicides in the country , more people are killed by their partners in new brunswick than in any other maritime province . premier blaine higgs mentioned the issue last week during his meeting with other atlantic premiers , and they all agreed to set up a domestic homicide review network . " this is key in finding an atlantic strategy that , hopefully in the long - run , will reduce the current trend that it ' s going - - increasing , compared to the rest of the canada , " said miguel leblanc , the executive director of the new brunswick association of social workers . once a coroner has completed their report into a domestic homicide , a committee , made up of representatives from each province , will review the circumstances surrounding the death and if anything could have been done to prevent it . this is something that social workers say is critical . " social workers do work with a lot of the victims , " leblanc said . " it ' s a difficult and challenging issue to work on , and if we can develop proper prevention approaches , a bit that ' s based on evidence and research , this will help us . " in other provinces , these networks have sparked change . in saskatchewan , police are now allowed to warn a person of their partner ' s violent history . some have educated people on warning signs to watch out for if they suspect a loved one is in a violent relationship . " these things are happening , " wilson said . " how did it happen ? ( we need to ) ask the questions so we can identify what causes this , and maybe take action and do something about it . " research on this issue differs from province to province , so this network will also study these homicides for patterns , and try to establish a better picture of just how serious the issue of family - related violence is in the atlantic provinces . 
__label__relevant central maine july 17 police log in albion , friday at 4 : 56 a . m . , suspicious activity was reported on east benton road . in augusta , thursday at 6 : 09 a . m . , suspicious activity was reported on swan street . 8 : 04 a . m . , suspicious activity was reported on pierce drive . 8 : 06 a . m . , a pedestrian check was made on mount vernon avenue . 9 : 12 a . m . , a well - being / mental health check was made on water street . 9 : 13 a . m . , harassment was reported on northern avenue . 9 : 29 a . m . , criminal trespass was reported on boothby street . 9 : 30 a . m . , a disorderly conduct disturbance was reported on eastern avenue . 9 : 54 a . m . , suspicious activity was reported at winthrop and state streets . 10 : 41 a . m . , a disorderly conduct disturbance was reported on anthony avenue . 10 : 54 a . m . , an executive order violation was reported on bangor street . 11 a . m . , a sex offense was reported on stanley street . 11 : 23 a . m . , a wild animal complaint was made on school street . 11 : 57 a . m . , harassment was reported on northern avenue . 12 : 52 p . m . , a wild animal complaint was made on winthrop street . 1 : 23 p . m . , a disorderly conduct disturbance was reported on water street . 1 : 34 p . m . , suspicious activity was reported on civic center drive . 1 : 49 p . m . , a disorderly conduct disturbance was reported on water street . 2 : 53 p . m . , needles were recovered on water street . 2 : 54 p . m . , criminal trespass was reported on middle road . 3 : 04 p . m . , a well - being / mental health check was made on water street . 3 : 31 p . m . , suspicious activity was reported on western avenue . 3 : 38 p . m . , a pedestrian check was made on water street . 4 : 08 p . m . , a stray cat complaint was made on western avenue . 4 : 16 p . m . , an atv complaint was made on orchard street . 4 : 39 p . m . , a dog - at - large complaint was made on south belfast avenue . 6 : 13 p . m . , needles were recovered at hospital street and first avenue . 7 : 35 p . m . , theft was reported on civic center drive . 9 : 13 p . m . , suspicious activity was reported on hospital street . 10 : 06 p . m . , a general disturbance was reported on old winthrop road . in belgrade , thursday at 9 : 11 p . m . , criminal mischief was reported on oakland road . in canaan , thursday at 11 : 22 a . m . , mischief was reported on browns corner road . in chelsea , thursday at 2 : 03 p . m . , a well - being check was made on windsor road . related read more cop logsin china , thursday at 2 : 46 p . m . , theft was reported on legion memorial drive . in clinton , friday at 6 : 03 a . m . , a noise complaint was made on winn avenue . in cornville , thursday at 9 : 30 p . m . , a disturbance was reported on browns corner road . in embden , thursday at 2 : 58 p . m . , harassment was reported on farmer road . 10 : 42 p . m . , a domestic disturbance was reported on dunbar hill road . in fairfield , thursday at 10 : 45 a . m . , trespassing was reported on summit street . 2 : 28 p . m . , a scam complaint was made on water street . 7 : 11 p . m . , threatening was reported on hinckley road . 11 : 50 p . m . , suspicious activity was reported on island avenue . in farmington , thursday at 4 : 25 p . m . , theft or fraud was reported on franklin avenue . 6 : 01 p . m . , a domestic disturbance was reported on marvel street . 8 : 35 p . m . , assault was reported on main street . 9 : 26 p . m . , theft or fraud was reported on temple road . friday , 12 : 31 a . m . , harassment was reported on north street . 12 : 35 a . m . , a domestic disturbance was reported on industry road . in gardiner , thursday at 2 : 22 p . m . , a drug offense was reported on summer street . 3 : 51 p . m . , lost property was reported on water street . 4 : 31 p . m . , fraud was reported on elm street . 5 : 11 p . m . , an animal complaint was made on lincoln avenue . 7 : 15 p . m . , suspicious activity was reported on bridge street . 8 : 43 p . m . , an animal complaint was made at brunswick avenue and neal street . friday at 1 : 57 a . m . , suspicious activity was reported on enterprise avenue . in hartland , thursday at 9 : 09 p . m . , suspicious activity was reported on crosby street . in madison , thursday at 5 : 25 p . m . , a domestic disturbance was reported on nichols street . friday , 8 : 21 a . m . , threatening was reported on thurston hill road . 8 : 47 a . m . , suspicious activity was reported on main street . in mount vernon , thursday at 4 : 10 p . m . , a missing person was reported on wings mills road . in new portland , thursday at 7 : 18 p . m . , a domestic disturbance was reported on elm street . in norridgewock , thursday at 7 : 27 p . m . , trespassing was reported on sandy river road . in oakland , thursday at 7 : 55 a . m . , a domestic dispute was reported on south alpine street . 5 : 03 p . m . , a disturbance was reported on church street . 8 : 27 p . m . , suspicious activity was reported on church street . in palmyra , thursday at 9 : 58 a . m . , suspicious activity was reported on libby hill road . in pittsfield , thursday at 10 : 05 a . m . , a disturbance was reported on hartland avenue . 11 : 07 a . m . , suspicious activity was reported on westbranch court . in randolph , thursday at 7 : 50 p . m . , a domestic dispute was reported on barber road . in rome , thursday at 1 : 59 p . m . , criminal mischief was reported on watson pond road . in sidney , thursday at 10 : 42 a . m . , criminal mischief was reported on west river road . in skowhegan , thursday at 9 : 36 a . m . , assault was reported on west front street . 11 : 56 a . m . , suspicious activity was reported on free street . 1 : 19 p . m . , a disturbance was reported on waterville road . 2 : 43 p . m . , harassment was reported on water street . 9 : 08 p . m . , auto theft was reported on malbons mill road . friday , 6 : 37 a . m . , a disturbance was reported on water street . 7 : 16 a . m . , mischief was reported on water street . in solon , thursday at 1 : 21 p . m . , trespassing was reported on north main street . in waterville , thursday at 10 : 57 a . m . , suspicious activity was reported on chase avenue . 12 : 05 p . m . , criminal mischief was reported on halde street . 12 : 13 p . m . , a disturbance was reported on pleasant street . 1 : 57 p . m . , theft was reported on kelsey street . 2 : 21 p . m . , suspicious activity was reported on concourse . 2 : 43 p . m . , suspicious activity was reported on north street . 6 : 39 p . m . , a disturbance was reported on elm street . 6 : 54 p . m . , suspicious activity was reported on winter street . 7 : 04 p . m . , juvenile offenses were reported on maple street . 7 : 48 p . m . , sex offenses were reported on main street . in wilton , friday at 8 : 47 a . m . , a domestic disturbance was reported on u . s . route 2 east . in winslow , 11 : 37 a . m . , a burglary of a motor vehicle was reported on charland street . in winthrop , thursday at 2 p . m . , disorderly conduct was reported on route 41 . arrestsin augusta , thursday at 11 : 58 p . m . , melissa b . caswell , 37 , of augusta , was arrested on a charge of domestic violence assault , following a report of a domestic disturbance on new england road . friday at 12 : 30 a . m . , heidi m . wardwell , 36 , of augusta , was arrested on a charge of operating under the influence ( alcohol ) , following a hit - and - run motor vehicle accident on washington street . in chelsea , thursday at 5 : 32 p . m . , an arrest was made following a motor vehicle stop on windsor road . no further information was available from the kennebec county sheriff ’ s office by press time . 5 : 50 p . m . , an arrest was made following a motor vehicle stop on windsor road . no further information was available from the kennebec county sheriff ’ s office by press time . in gardiner , thursday at 11 : 36 p . m . , nicholas john lorden , 41 , of land o lakes , florida , was arrested on a charge of operating under the influence , following a motor vehicle stop on brunswick avenue . in sidney , thursday at 11 : 37 p . m . , william hue st . amand ii , 38 , of sidney , was arrested on a charge of domestic violence aggravated assault , following a report of a domestic dispute on reds place . in somerset county , thursday at 11 : 57 p . m . , andrew dewar , 25 , of waterville , was arrested on a charge of violating conditions of release . in waterville , thursday at 8 : 35 a . m . , devon alexander palmer , 24 , of waterville , was arrested on charges of operating under the influence , aggravated trafficking of scheduled drugs , unlawful possession of scheduled drugs , use of drug paraphernalia and criminal forfeiture of property . in windsor , thursday at 6 : 32 p . m . , an arrest was made following a motor vehicle stop on ridge road . no further information was available from the kennebec county sheriff ’ s office by press time . in winthrop , thursday at 12 : 32 p . m . , jesse b . hyden , 32 , of winthrop , was arrested on charges of assault and obstructing the report of a crime , following a report of assault on butters hill terrace . summonsesin augusta , thursday at 6 : 09 p . m . , a summons was issued following a motor vehicle stop on western avenue . no further information was available from augusta police by press time . in oakland , thursday at 4 : 11 p . m . , jamie l . millett , 30 , of belgrade , was issued a summons on a charge of failing to notify of a motor vehicle accident . in windsor , thursday at 11 : 24 a . m . , faith whitsit , 31 , of whitefield , was issued a summons on a charge of operating an unregistered motor vehicle for more than 150 days , following a traffic stop on ridge road . send questions / comments to the editors . « previousnext »filed under : 
__label__no_relevant moving company helping domestic violence victims “ you go in and you ’ re moving somebody out of [their] abusive situation , not only do they need respect , ” said moss . “ but they deserve respect . they also deserve confidentiality . nobody wants this kind of thing out there . and they don ’ t want their business known . and working through an accredited facility that knows how to handle the process that ’ s the approach that we ’ re taking and we ’ re not doing this fly by night . ” 
__label__no_relevant new brunswick legislature about to end busy sitting fredericton - - the vote will be friday , but new brunswick ' s premier feels confident he now has the votes he needs to pass the controversial essential services bill - - avoiding an election and a nursing home strike . a lot has been done during this sitting of the legislature . twenty - seven pieces of legislation have been introduced since nov . 19 , including a consumer carbon tax . " it ' s a win for the consumers of new brunswick to be able to have our own model or price on pollution , our own carbon tax , that will be best put to use to protect our consumers , " said environment minister jeff carr . they ' ve also introduced protections for victims of domestic violence , " to ensure that woman who are victims of domestic violence can break their lease , and get out of their apartments without a huge cost , " said green party leader david coon . and then there was a new bill on an old issue : mandatory vaccinations . " i ' m feeling pretty good about it , perhaps it ' s just christmas optimism , but i think from all sides of the house that there ' s recognition that protecting our children is important , especially as the headlines pile up from around the world about the spread of measles and other dangerous and easily preventable diseases , " said education minister dominic cardy . above all , the premier says getting his essential services bill passed was critical . the bill would allow for a process to determine how many nursing home workers could legally strike , but it also includes a condition that during binding arbitration , the province ' s ability to pay be considered . after a marathon debate on the bill wednesday night , an amendment was passed which ensured that during the confidence vote friday , the people ' s alliance will support the bill " it was very important that this went through , " said premier blaine higgs . " so , at this point in time , for this year other than the ones that are common - this would certainly have been the most important moment for my government thus far . " some of these bills still have a ways to go before becoming law , but 27 pieces of new legislation is far more productive than last year . 
__label__relevant intimate partner violence against women creates economic hardship , study finds women who experience intimate partner violence are more likely to suffer material hardship , according to a study led by lenna nepomnyaschy . credit : peter byronwomen who experience intimate partner violence , including physical , emotional , and controlling abuse , are more likely to suffer material hardship—the inability to purchase food , housing , utilities , medical care or other needs for a healthy life , according to a rutgers - led study . the study , in the journal violence against women , found that experiencing intimate partner violence increases the probability that a woman will experience material hardship by 10 - 25 percent when factors such as ethnicity , education , mental health and drug use are accounted for . analyses were based on nine years of longitudinal data from the fragile families and child wellbeing study , which followed 5 , 000 women after the birth of a child in 20 large cities in the united states . data were collected by researchers at princeton and columbia universities . physical abuse , including being slapped , kicked , hit or experiencing sexual abuse , had the strongest association with material hardship , such that women who experienced this form of abuse reported 25 percent greater likelihood of being unable to purchase basic necessary items and services . controlling abuse , which happens when a partner controls the victim by not allowing her to work or taking her wages , had the second - strongest association , increasing the likelihood of reporting material hardship by approximately 13 percent . the study reinforced the idea that there are more than just physical ramifications in an abusive relationship . lenna nepomnyaschy , co - author and associate professor at rutgers university–new brunswick ' s school of social work , said , " many people don ' t realize the extent of the negative effects domestic violence has on victims . policy makers need to be aware of these harmful effects on the economic stability and security of vulnerable families when there are discussions about provision of safety net benefits , such as food stamps , medicaid , and other forms of public assistance . " she continued , " our results are highly relevant in light of a new rule issued by the trump administration and scheduled to go into effect october 15th , which would deny green cards for legal immigrants who receive any public assistance , including food stamps , medicaid , and housing assistance , even when they are eligible for such programs . the most vulnerable women , those who are victims of domestic violence , poor , and immigrants , and their children would thus be the most negatively affected . " " our study merges interpersonal violence and poverty research to make the case for an issue that people think of as a personal problem . communities and families can be affected , with the possibility of electricity and water being shut off , eviction and food insecurity , which are all tremendously harmful for mothers and their children , " said co - author julia o " connor , assistant professor at university of central florida and a graduate of the doctoral program at rutgers university–new brunswick ' s school of social work . the study was based on a sample of 4 , 234 women , who were interviewed at the birth of their child and at four follow - up interviews over nine years , and who were involved in a relationship with either the biological father of the focal child or a new partner . over the course of the study , approximately 40 percent of these women reported any material hardship and approximately 25 percent experienced some form of intimate partner violence . explore further intimate partner violence against women creates economic hardship , study finds
__label__no_relevant more policy announcements from newfoundland and labrador liberal leadership hopefuls a ast . john ' s , n . l . —the andrew furey campaign issued another policy announcement on tuesday : support for $25 - per - day childcare by 2022 . " we have to make it easier for parents in this province . i ’ m committed to work with stakeholders to implement $25 - a - day daycare for all families in newfoundland and labrador , " furey stated in a news release . “ the conference board of canada says every $1 invested in early childhood education yields close to $6 in economic benefits . it helps more women enter the workforce , as has been seen in other places with affordable childcare . ” john abbott made a number of commitments on tuesday relating to women ’ s equality . abbott says he would work to establish a task force on domestic violence , set and meet a target of 50 per cent representation for women on government agencies , boards and commissions , and take women ’ s issues and equality into consideration on all government decisions . “ our liberal party will apply the same gender lens to its policies and procedures to ensure female candidates are properly supported throughout the nomination process and during election campaigns , ” abbott stated in a news release . “ i will make a respectful culture in the liberal caucus and the house of assembly a top priority . ” related : 
__label__relevant newfoundland and labrador ’ s chief medical officer warns against relaxed physical distancing a ast . john ' s , n . l . —peter jacksonlocal journalism initiative reporteron the eve of a weekend where many newfoundland and labrador residents will make decisions who to “ double bubble ” with , the province ’ s chief medical officer of health warned everyone not to take the new privileges too far . that especially applies to those who still work with the public who may want to share their household with an older person or someone with health conditions . “ please choose your bubble wisely to avoid putting a vulnerable person in another household at risk , ” dr . janice fitzgerald said at friday ’ s video briefing . as part of a five - stage relaxation of covid - 19 health measures released thursday , two households are now permitted to merge exclusively with each other . fitzgerald , along with premier dwight ball and health minister dr . john haggie , said the idea is not to encourage large family gatherings or campfires at the cabin . ball said to make sure the decision is mutual , and suggested many people might opt not to double up at all . “ do what makes you feel safe , ” he said . and speaking of cabins , fitzgerald emphasized that non - essential travel in the province is still discouraged . she said people travelling to summer homes should realize that social distancing is just as crucial , and that health facilities in many places are less equipped to handle the situation should an outbreak occur . “ i hope that people will behave responsibly and try to make the best decision , ” she said . haggie also stressed the need for common sense . “ at the end of the day , it ’ s not possible for my department or dr . fitzgerald to regulate or arbitrate every possible scenario , ” he said . “ this is no time for yard sales and things like that . we have not got anywhere near that kind of normalcy yet . ” business openingsasked about the lack of certainty over which businesses will qualify to open as the province moves from one alert level to the next , ball and fitzgerald said a government team is working with retailers and others to establish the risk in each case . “ it ’ s impossible for us to know every business that ’ s out there and what their risk levels are , ” fitzgerald said . when level 4 comes into effect on may 11 , the businesses that will be newly exempt are garden shops and landscaping services , professional law and financial services , and pet daycares . dog groomers must remain closed , although veterinarians can provide this service , usually for a higher fee . small , organized gatherings such as weddings and funerals will be allowed with a maximum of 10 people , but visitations and wakes are still not permitted . fitzgerald also explained why campgrounds in the province will remain closed for now . she said they have communal and recreational areas that encourage socializing , including children playing together . domestic violencein light of recent reports of a spike in domestic violence , the premier said services for those in peril are still being offered . “ violence of any kind has no place in our society and it will not be tolerated , ” he said . “ when you are ready , and it is safe for you to reach out , there are organizations waiting to help you . ” he said physical distancing and hygiene precautions are in place , so victims of abuse are not forced to stay in a situation that is unsafe . “ if you ’ re experiencing violence in your home , please reach out . all the essential services are still in place , and in many cases they have been enhanced to help you at this difficult time . ” a list of services can be found on the website gov . nl . ca / covid - 19 . in other developments friday : • phone services for the hearing impaired are now in place for those needing to call about covid - 19 information and advice . text service : 709 - 216 - 8188 . video relay : 1 - 888 - 834 - 1252 . these numbers are for the hearing impaired only . • haggie paid tribute to dr . debbie reid , who died this week after a long illness . he said she basically founded modern critical care for children in the province . “ she was a star . she was a nice lady , an excellent cook and one of the best damn pediatricians you ’ ll ever find . ” peter jackson is a local journalism initiative reporter covering health for the telegram . 
__label__no_relevant courts in newfoundland and labrador resuming with a case backlog in the thousands a ast . john ' s , n . l . —in a year , provincial courts around newfoundland and labrador deal with a vast numbers of cases : 28 , 000 charges , according to the chief judge , and 5 , 000 scheduled trials on the dockets . one year will see about 3 , 800 arrests , 1 , 750 small claims trials , 1 , 400 applications for judicial authorizations and 1 , 110 appearances for summary offence tickets and contraventions . apart from that , there are about 100 other appearances daily , either bail hearings or pre - trial conferences or settlement conferences . what happens when all of a sudden the court has to close its doors for three months ? a significant challenge , to say the least . related “ i ’ m sure you can imagine the backlog is huge , ” provincial court chief judge pamela goulding told members of the law society of newfoundland and labrador in a webinar last week . “ we have 7 , 000 appearances lost , 9 , 000 hours of sitting time lost , so we ’ re going to double - book or triple book . ” the initial challenges came with the closure of the court due to the covid - 19 pandemic in the middle of march , goulding explained . though the facilities closed they didn ’ t shut down , with bail hearings , in - custody trials and emergency cases taking place by teleconference , and later , videoconference through a memorial university platform . the court has worked its way through three months of obstacles since then — including some disagreement on whether or not certain cases could legally be heard electronically and a hesitation by lawyers and accused persons to go forward by virtual means — and is now set to reopen june 29 . in downtown st . john ’ s , atlantic place — where the provincial court is housed — has already started preparing , with floor stickers marking out six - foot social distancing measurements in certain areas , posters with hygiene reminders in light of the covid - 19 virus at various locations , and signs on every elevator , telling potential occupants , “ maximum number of people in elevator : 1 . use this opportunity to get some exercise — take the stairs or wait for the next elevator . ” once the court opens it will operate at 90 per cent of its usual level . goulding said the focus will be on matters including criminal trials , family cases and peace bonds ; traffic , small claims and contraventions cases will remain postponed for now , likely until the fall . bail hearings , arraignments and sentencings will still be conducted virtually unless otherwise directed by a judge , while trials , preliminary inquiries and other matters will proceed in person unless otherwise ruled . provincial court will reopen its doors post - covid - 19 on june 29 , and the premises at atlantic place in st . john ' s are getting ready . posters remind visitors to adhere to public health guidelines like social distancing , and limit elevators to one person at a time . - tara bradbury / the telegramdrug treatment court , mental health court and family violence intervention court will all be fully reinstated . due to social distancing rules , access to the court will be restricted to participants in the proceedings , including the lawyers , parties , witnesses , support workers , probation officers , victims services workers , parents of young offenders , journalists and others who have been given advance permission by a judge . everyone attending provincial court must wear a non - medical face mask and one will be provided to anyone who doesn ’ t have one . courtroom surfaces will be disinfected between appearances . in places like happy valley - goose bay , where courtroom space is tight , the court is looking to secure a larger location to hold proceedings on busy days . the same is true in st . john ’ s for courtroom no . 5 , which is set to call 60 people on july 2 alone . “ obviously we need another location in order for there to be physical distancing and because while we want to get the work done , we want to get it done as safely as possible for all justice system participants , ” goulding said . “ reducing the number of people in our courtrooms is really , really going to be the challenge . ” supreme court wrestling with jury selectionit ’ s a similar situation at the supreme court of newfoundland and labrador , which began hearing in - person cases last week for the first time since march . since court operations were restricted three months ago by covid - 19 , 1 , 000 appearances have been missed , said chief justice raymond whalen . the superior court saw the same challenges as summary court when it came to technology and the uptake among lawyers and their clients of virtual proceedings , and whalen encouraged law society members to remain flexible in regard to scheduling appearances in the coming months . essential matters will be heard as quickly as possible , he said . he expects it could take up to a year to get all the judge - alone criminal trials and civil trials back on track . civil applications should all be recovered by this coming november . jury trials are the “ tough nut to crack , ” whalen said , given they can ’ t proceed virtually and require hundreds of people to be summoned for jury selection . whalen said in april the court was looking for alternate locations in which to hold jury trials . “ no one has the answer in canada but i think we have the best plan , from what i ’ ve heard , ” whalen said , crediting the department of justice . the court now has an agreement to use the beothuk building on crosbie place in st . john ’ s — the same location where the muskrat falls inquiry took place — for jury trials , allowing compliance with social distancing guidelines . “ no one has the answer in canada but i think we have the best plan , from what i ’ ve heard , ” — chief justice raymond whalenthe premises are already being renovated for the purpose , whalen said , and arrangements are being made for alternate jury trial venues in other areas of the province as well . “ the physical space of handling and conducting the jury trial itself will be accommodated by that facility with proper social distancing , ” the chief justice explained . as for jury selection , the court is attempting to arrange use of a school like the college of the north atlantic combined with video technology to allow for that process to happen . “ it will be logistically difficult but it ’ s the only solution that ’ s available to us and we ’ re aggressively pursuing that , ” whalen said . by the time the next scheduled jury trial happens in september , arrangements will be in place . in the meantime , attendance at supreme court proceedings is also limited , with the gallery benches already marked with signs at six - foot intervals . while face masks are optional , hand sanitization upon entry is not , and visitors must answer a series of questions related to their potential risk of transmitting the covid - 19 virus before entering the courthouse . the province ’ s court of appeal , which includes one small courtroom with limited capacity , has also been proceeding by virtual means , and will move to in - person hearings early next month . attendance will be restricted to those involved in the matter , said chief justice deborah fry , and the court is prepared to default to a virtual proceeding if the number of participants is likely to violate public health guidelines . twitter : @tara_bradbury
__label__no_relevant courts in newfoundland and labrador resuming with a case backlog in the thousands a ast . john ' s , n . l . —in a year , provincial courts around newfoundland and labrador deal with a vast numbers of cases : 28 , 000 charges , according to the chief judge , and 5 , 000 scheduled trials on the dockets . one year will see about 3 , 800 arrests , 1 , 750 small claims trials , 1 , 400 applications for judicial authorizations and 1 , 110 appearances for summary offence tickets and contraventions . apart from that , there are about 100 other appearances daily , either bail hearings or pre - trial conferences or settlement conferences . what happens when all of a sudden the court has to close its doors for three months ? a significant challenge , to say the least . related “ i ’ m sure you can imagine the backlog is huge , ” provincial court chief judge pamela goulding told members of the law society of newfoundland and labrador in a webinar last week . “ we have 7 , 000 appearances lost , 9 , 000 hours of sitting time lost , so we ’ re going to double - book or triple book . ” the initial challenges came with the closure of the court due to the covid - 19 pandemic in the middle of march , goulding explained . though the facilities closed they didn ’ t shut down , with bail hearings , in - custody trials and emergency cases taking place by teleconference , and later , videoconference through a memorial university platform . the court has worked its way through three months of obstacles since then — including some disagreement on whether or not certain cases could legally be heard electronically and a hesitation by lawyers and accused persons to go forward by virtual means — and is now set to reopen june 29 . in downtown st . john ’ s , atlantic place — where the provincial court is housed — has already started preparing , with floor stickers marking out six - foot social distancing measurements in certain areas , posters with hygiene reminders in light of the covid - 19 virus at various locations , and signs on every elevator , telling potential occupants , “ maximum number of people in elevator : 1 . use this opportunity to get some exercise — take the stairs or wait for the next elevator . ” once the court opens it will operate at 90 per cent of its usual level . goulding said the focus will be on matters including criminal trials , family cases and peace bonds ; traffic , small claims and contraventions cases will remain postponed for now , likely until the fall . bail hearings , arraignments and sentencings will still be conducted virtually unless otherwise directed by a judge , while trials , preliminary inquiries and other matters will proceed in person unless otherwise ruled . provincial court will reopen its doors post - covid - 19 on june 29 , and the premises at atlantic place in st . john ' s are getting ready . posters remind visitors to adhere to public health guidelines like social distancing , and limit elevators to one person at a time . - tara bradbury / the telegramdrug treatment court , mental health court and family violence intervention court will all be fully reinstated . due to social distancing rules , access to the court will be restricted to participants in the proceedings , including the lawyers , parties , witnesses , support workers , probation officers , victims services workers , parents of young offenders , journalists and others who have been given advance permission by a judge . everyone attending provincial court must wear a non - medical face mask and one will be provided to anyone who doesn ’ t have one . courtroom surfaces will be disinfected between appearances . in places like happy valley - goose bay , where courtroom space is tight , the court is looking to secure a larger location to hold proceedings on busy days . the same is true in st . john ’ s for courtroom no . 5 , which is set to call 60 people on july 2 alone . “ obviously we need another location in order for there to be physical distancing and because while we want to get the work done , we want to get it done as safely as possible for all justice system participants , ” goulding said . “ reducing the number of people in our courtrooms is really , really going to be the challenge . ” supreme court wrestling with jury selectionit ’ s a similar situation at the supreme court of newfoundland and labrador , which began hearing in - person cases last week for the first time since march . since court operations were restricted three months ago by covid - 19 , 1 , 000 appearances have been missed , said chief justice raymond whalen . the superior court saw the same challenges as summary court when it came to technology and the uptake among lawyers and their clients of virtual proceedings , and whalen encouraged law society members to remain flexible in regard to scheduling appearances in the coming months . essential matters will be heard as quickly as possible , he said . he expects it could take up to a year to get all the judge - alone criminal trials and civil trials back on track . civil applications should all be recovered by this coming november . jury trials are the “ tough nut to crack , ” whalen said , given they can ’ t proceed virtually and require hundreds of people to be summoned for jury selection . whalen said in april the court was looking for alternate locations in which to hold jury trials . “ no one has the answer in canada but i think we have the best plan , from what i ’ ve heard , ” whalen said , crediting the department of justice . the court now has an agreement to use the beothuk building on crosbie place in st . john ’ s — the same location where the muskrat falls inquiry took place — for jury trials , allowing compliance with social distancing guidelines . “ no one has the answer in canada but i think we have the best plan , from what i ’ ve heard , ” — chief justice raymond whalenthe premises are already being renovated for the purpose , whalen said , and arrangements are being made for alternate jury trial venues in other areas of the province as well . “ the physical space of handling and conducting the jury trial itself will be accommodated by that facility with proper social distancing , ” the chief justice explained . as for jury selection , the court is attempting to arrange use of a school like the college of the north atlantic combined with video technology to allow for that process to happen . “ it will be logistically difficult but it ’ s the only solution that ’ s available to us and we ’ re aggressively pursuing that , ” whalen said . by the time the next scheduled jury trial happens in september , arrangements will be in place . in the meantime , attendance at supreme court proceedings is also limited , with the gallery benches already marked with signs at six - foot intervals . while face masks are optional , hand sanitization upon entry is not , and visitors must answer a series of questions related to their potential risk of transmitting the covid - 19 virus before entering the courthouse . the province ’ s court of appeal , which includes one small courtroom with limited capacity , has also been proceeding by virtual means , and will move to in - person hearings early next month . attendance will be restricted to those involved in the matter , said chief justice deborah fry , and the court is prepared to default to a virtual proceeding if the number of participants is likely to violate public health guidelines . twitter : @tara_bradbury
__label__no_relevant newfoundland and labrador seniors of distinction honours five individuals for their lifetimes of service a ast . john ' s , n . l . —celebrating seniors and their decades of service to their respective communities was front and centre tuesday . those accomplishments were handed out to five individuals who have made a difference in the lives of everyone they encounter , and were lorraine best of paradise , annie brennan of marystown , noreen careen of labrador city , olga kinden of green island cove and john mcgrath of st . john ’ s . a ceremony was held in conjunction with national seniors day across canada and the international day of older persons globally . assisting seniors “ i hope i made someone ’ s life truly better , ” lorraine best said . “ i have been volunteering with seniors n . l . for the past 25 years , answering the phones , taking information and making referrals , ” she added . born in 1933 , best has been a longstanding seniors advocate , volunteering her time to make the province a safer and more welcoming place . she is an outspoken advocate and a well - recognized retired teacher , speaker and presenter on ageism and elder abuse . “ we are in a housing crisis . there are so many looking for housing , not just affordable , but subsidized housing , ’ ’ she said . “ there has to be an answer out there to combat this problem , ” she added , noting elder abuse and ageism are issues she has worked to combat , and she hopes elected officials can look at these issues and find ways to make a difference in these areas . working with womenhelping to overcome domestic violence in her community is one of the areas noreen careen has been vocal about during her volunteer service . “ the women i have helped through the hope haven women ’ s outreach to get through the struggles of family violence is work that i cherish , ’ ’ careen said . an active volunteer , something she has done since she was a teenager , she has been involved in community organizations throughout labrador , including the status of women council , hope haven shelter , newfoundland and labrador 50+ federation , ioc - labrador west community advisory panel , labrador west housing and homelessness coalition , and seniors pioneer living . careen is a member of the provincial advisory council for aging and seniors and is known by the residents of labrador west as someone who can always be approached to assist and advocate for seniors . on the balljohn mcgrath was an active member of the newfoundland and labrador soccer association ( including serving as president ) , and established the masters soccer division for players 30 years and older . he also supported increased opportunities for women in the sport . mcgrath brought international sport to the province with the canada vs . honduras world cup soccer qualifier in 1985 , as well as the fifa u18 world championship . he also served as an executive member of both sport newfoundland and labrador , and the newfoundland and labrador sports hall of fame . mcgrath was elected as a member of the commonwealth games association of canada . in addition to his time volunteering with various sport initiatives , he had a 40 - year career as a lawyer and served as a member of the mental health care and treatment review board and royal newfoundland constabulary ( rnc ) complaints commission . “ this has been a true delight , volunteering for 30 , 35 years . i have enjoyed every day i was involved in sports , ” mcgrath said . “ i am indebted to all the guys i played with , coached with , worked with throughout my years . it ’ s been a true delight . ’ ’ mcgrath challenges everyone to get involved in something , see it through and see the difference their efforts will make for those participating in each respective activity . he has a long history of volunteering with various sporting groups across the province . his expertise and services in those areas led him to a reputation as honest , dedicated and hard working . integral contributionolga kinden is an integral member of her community as a regular volunteer . as a girl guide leader on the northern peninsula for over 30 years , she provided options for young people in an area with limited opportunities for recreation . “ i have volunteered for about 30 years and have enjoyed it , doing things to help the community , ’ ’ kinden said . “ i was happy to take the girls to places they never would get a chance to visit . we went to boston , to p . e . i . ’ ’ in addition to her work in guiding , she served on the board of directors of personal care homes in flowers cove . through her work with the green island cove lions club , she donated time filling out grant applications for projects to allow people to qualify for employment insurance . she also took the lead in organizing the town ’ s first come home year , which drew more than 1 , 000 people to the area . these activities are in addition to her roles with the community ’ s anglican church , which included being a sunday school teacher , treasurer , and co - chair of the parish council . efforts resonatedthe humbleness of a small - town volunteer resonated with her community . so much , in fact , that members of the community compiled a long - list of accomplishments of annie brennan . at 88 , brennan still volunteers with the mercy associates , a group that maintains a formal relationship to the sisters of mercy and assists in their work . she has previously been involved with the marystown family aid committee , the canadian cancer society and the catholic women ’ s league . “ serving my community has brought me much joy , ’ ’ brennan said . “ i received more from them than they did from me , ’ ’ she added , referring to those she has helped throughout her decades of volunteerism . in recognition of decades of volunteer work , brennan earned the citizen of the year award from the marystown lions club and received citations from the red cross and canadian cancer society . 
__label__relevant pam frampton : tread carefully with clare ’ s law a aget used to hearing about clare ’ s law . it ’ s being rolled out in saskatchewan and the groundwork is being laid in newfoundland and labrador , alberta , ontario and british columbia . named for clare wood , a 36 - year - old single mother who was strangled by her ex - boyfriend in england in 2009 , the law ’ s purpose is to protect people who may be at risk from a violent partner . the law was championed by clare ’ s father , michael brown , and it allows the police to verbally disclose , either proactively or upon request , the criminal history of someone who has previously committed intimate partner violence . clare ’ s killer had convictions for harassing a woman and breaking a restraining order . he had told clare he ’ d been jailed for “ motoring offences . ” in the months after she broke up with him , she had complained to the police multiple times about his threatening and violent behaviour . her father argued that had she known about his past at the beginning of their relationship , she likely would never have gotten involved with him and would be alive today . put that simply , it makes sense . but the reality of relationship violence is far more complex , and clare ’ s law requires more scrutiny . two academics , sandra walklate and kate fitz - gibbon , from the u . k . and australia , respectively , have studied clare ’ s law extensively and say there is no evidence to date that it “ acts as a preventive strategy or an effective intervention . ” ( a paper they wrote refers to violence against women , but clare ’ s law can also be used by men at risk from a partner . ) “ much violence against women is hidden in nature and often unreported to the police ( this is even more so for ethnic minority women and women with disabilities ) , ” they write . “ the presumption that under clare ’ s law women can make informed decisions misunderstands the realities of living with the controlling effects of violence , overestimates the accuracy of police data on previous offending , and potentially makes women experiencing violence responsible for their partner ’ s behaviour should they choose to remain in the relationship , post - disclosure . ” put that simply , it makes sense . but the reality of relationship violence is far more complex , and clare ’ s law requires more scrutiny . in this province , justice minister andrew parsons has acknowledged that the legislation being introduced is bare bones at this point , and says there will be consultation to determine precisely how it would work . and that ’ s wise , because the law raises many questions , such as whether it unjustly puts the onus on the victim to avoid the abuse , rather than on the abuser to stop being violent . and it raises questions about privacy and human rights : at what point does someone officially become your partner ? could the law be used vindictively ? what if a person receives information and decides to continue in the relationship ? could custody of their children be jeopardized by their decision ? would they be taken less seriously , then , in the face of further complaints ? these are some of the nuanced questions that need to be answered , as well as practical ones : will the police be given more resources to gather information and disclose it to people at risk ? what gets included in a person ’ s criminal history ? convictions only , or complaints , as well ? in the united kingdom , where clare ’ s law has been in force for five years , police say there are often cases where they attempt to proactively disclose information to people at risk , but they refuse to hear it . as one anti - domestic abuse advocate told the bbc , if a woman " feels she ' s not able to escape " it can be “ easier not to know . ” many advocates suggest that any additional resources should be deployed to help people leave abusive relationships . in an excellent analysis piece on the university of alberta ’ s law blog , professors jennifer koshan and wanda wiegers say that clare ’ s law — also known as domestic violence disclosure ( dvd ) law — could be window dressing hiding a larger problem . “ governments can point to dvd laws as evidence that they are doing something while avoiding the need for increased funding for support services for survivors and the larger structural issues underlying domestic violence , ” they write . “ this is not to say that dvd laws will not be a useful tool in some cases , but they must be accompanied by the kinds of resources and training that advocates and survivors have called for… ” pam frampton is the telegram ’ s managing editor . email pamela . frampton@thetelegram . com . twitter : pam_framptonrelated story• clare ’ s law is coming to newfoundland and labradormore from pam frampton• the season of melancholy• you don ' t owe anyone your vote
__label__relevant neighbour says she alerted n . s . rcmp of gunman ' s domestic violence , illegal firearms a aseven years ago , brenda forbes warned nova scotia rcmp that her neighbour in portapique was a dangerous man . he forced forbes and her husband , both military members , to sell their house in the rural community and move to halifax as they feared for their lives . but even there they didn ' t feel safe , so they moved out west . on april 18 and 19 , their former neighbour would take 22 innocent people ’ s lives as he went on a shooting rampage that started in portapique and ended in enfield more than 13 hours later . “ when i first saw the stuff happening on the news and i saw neighbours and stuff saying , ‘oh , he was such a nice guy , ’ i went ballistic , ” forbes told cbc ’ s carol off on as it happens . the chronicle herald reached out to forbes through a source but she is no longer doing interviews . forbes , who first told her story to the halifax examiner , described the gunman as a “ psychopath . ” forbes said she witnessed him treat his girlfriend , the same woman he beat and bound at the start of the tragic events on april 18 , “ like his possession ” in 2013 . ' he will hurt me again ' “ the first time that she ran over to my house , actually , and she said that he ' d been beating her and he had blocked her car in so she couldn ' t get away , ” forbes told off . “ i said , ‘you need to get help , ’ and she said , ‘no , i can ' t because he will hurt me again . ’ ” and it only escalated from there . another time , forbes said her neighbour was drinking with his girlfriend and three other men when he assaulted her . “ one of the guys told me he had her on the ground , was strangling her and screaming at her . and she actually said , ‘don ' t get involved or you ' re only going to make it worse , ’ ” she said . from there , forbes called the rcmp and told them what had happened . she also mentioned her neighbour had a “ bunch of illegal weapons ” as well . the rcmp officer asked forbes if one of the witnesses would confirm her story , but when she called one and asked him to talk , the answer she got back was , “ no way . … he ’ d kill me . ” “ the one thing that i have regret about was the people that bought the house . i should have let them know what he was like , because they ended up getting killed too . ” - brenda forbes , former neighbour of mass shooterwhen rcmp asked for proof of the illegal firearms , such as photos , forbes also didn ’ t have that . “ so there was nothing , basically nothing , at that time that they could do , ” she said . then the gunman paid forbes a visit at her home . “ he dragged her over to my house , pounded on the door . my husband answered the door and ( the gunman ) . . . started screaming , ” forbes said . “ i came downstairs , and he was screaming at me . … and he grabbed her , hauled her out the door , and he said , ‘you ' re going to pay for this ’ to me . ” forbes said after that , the woman wasn ’ t allowed to speak to or go near her . when forbes ’ husband deployed to africa , she said the gunman would park outside her home , get out and stare at it for half an hour . those actions lasted for a few days . forbes ’ husband returned home from africa and the gunman showed up again . “ so we put the house up for sale and it took over a year to sell it . we took a huge loss on it because i just wanted to get out of there , ” she said . “ the one thing that i have regret about was the people that bought the house . i should have let them know what he was like , because they ended up getting killed too . ” at a news conference on april 20 , rcmp commissioner brenda lucki said that the gunman was “ not well known to police ” and wasn ’ t on their radar . since the shooting , forbes says she has been interviewed four or five times by rcmp . but forbes said something has to give . “ the laws have to change . if somebody gets , whether it be male or female , if they get assaulted , if they ' re abused or whatever and somebody reports it for them because they ' re too afraid to , it should be looked at right away , ” she said . “ and if you report anybody that has what you know are illegal weapons , whether you have pictures or what of it , if somebody reports that , it should be investigated , like , yesterday . ” 
__label__no_relevant alleged threats made to timber harvesters as tensions rise in port blandford amid rising tensions and a government - issued warning of possible threats against local timber harvesters , the mayor of port blandford is arguing for both peace in his central newfoundland community and an end to logging operations in its surrounding valley . while chad holloway said the spectre of commercial harvesting in the southwest river valley has been contentious for the last few years , a notice issued thursday by the department of land and fish resources of " alleged threats to the physical safety of domestic and commercial harvesters " has escalated the need to find common ground . " we have to come to a non - violent solution here , " said holloway . the notice asked for both domestic and commercial harvesters to curtail their work until more is known about the threats . cbc requests for more information were unanswered . holloway said he did not know the nature of the threats but he knows well the frustration behind them . " there ' s people in the community that feel that their backs are up against the wall , " he told cbc newfoundland morning . " there ' s a lot of passion about that valley . " the trees surrounding port blandford are a key part of the town ' s tourism draw , says holloway . ( submitted by linda davis ) tourism and treesthat passion stems from port blandford ' s landscape , as it lies in a heavily forested area adjacent to terra nova national park . holloway said the valley ' s trees provide a beautiful backdrop that the community has cashed in on , with more than half its municipal tax revenue coming from tourism , whether it be from seasonal residents or businesses . a hundred local jobs are also in the tourism industry , said holloway , a sizable number for a community of a little more than 600 . there ' s a lot of forest in newfoundland , and they do not have to touch that valley . - chad holloway " we want to try to preserve our viewscapes . we ' re gonna try to protect our industry , our economy that we ' ve worked so hard to build , " he said , calling any commercial harvesting " an attack " on tourism . holloway also wrote a passionate five - page open letter of facebook detailing the locals ' love for the forest and calling for a complete moratorium on commercial harvesting in the valley . province ' s planthe province ' s commercial logging plan , approved in february 2017 , allows for harvesting permits in the valley subject to a number of conditions . the plan states that harvesting should be restricted on highly visible slopes , including viewscapes seen from the national park , and that " the forest service , where operationally feasible , will implement strategies to provide a balance between forest harvesting and the non - timber values identified by tourism , " which at minimum should involve a 100 - metre uncut buffer along highways . council , minister clash over planned forestry road in port blandfordholloway however , says the valley should be off - limits , particularly because it only holds what he says is a " not a lot of wood . " " if 8 , 000 [cubic] metres of wood is going to make or break the forestry industry in newfoundland , there ' s something definitely wrong with the forestry industry , " he said . while port blandford residents have been vocal in the past about their opposition to clearcutting , holloway said locals are ok with those operations happening slightly further afield . " these harvesters can just move up the road a little bit further , " he said . " we understand where harvesters are coming from ; we know that they have a living to make as well . butthere ' s a lot of forest in newfoundland , and they do not have to touch that valley , " he said . the province has said the rcmp is looking into the alleged threats . read more from cbc newfoundland and labrador
__label__no_relevant ontario cartoonist often draws on link to newfoundland a awelland , ont . —as a kid , sandra bell - lundy loved getting leftover paper bundles from the local paper mill , where her uncle worked . “ everyone in the family knew i was the one who liked to draw , ” she said . “ i was always doodling . it was a hobby… as i got older , i ’ d draw little cartoons about my friends just to lampoon them . ” it ’ s paid off for the 61 - year - old , who went on to create the " between friends " cartoon strip , which was launched in 1990 and currently appears in 175 newspapers worldwide — from canada and the united states to australia , india and trinidad . in canada , around 40 newspapers publish the cartoon , including the toronto star , the montreal gazette , calgary herald and the telegram . the strip features three middle - aged professional women — susan , maeve and kim — who cope with life problems , from everything to family , marriage and work to aging and the changing world while all the while highlighting strong friendships . sandra bell - lundy has mentioned newfoundland a few times in her comic strip between friends . it ' s because her mother and grandmother were born in this province . fans not only find it funny and entertaining , but also relatable . “ i found over the years , there ’ s a lot of commonality in the humour of women , ” bell - lundy told the telegram earlier this week during a phone interview from her home in welland , ont . “ everyone ’ s a little bit different , but there are some core things that seem to hit across the board . ” bell - lundy , who grew up in st . catharines , ont . , has also tackled some serious topics in her cartoon — from fertility treatment and adoption to domestic violence , which earned her high acclaim and kudos internationally . she ’ s also garnered attention in newfoundland and labrador , as her cartoon has made several mentions of this province . it ’ s because bell - lundy has a strong connection — both her mother ( shirley bell , nee graham , age 85 ) and grandmother ( harriet graham , nee taylor , born 1900 ) were born here . her mother is from harbour le cou , while her grandmother was from grand bruit – both small outport towns on the southwest coast of the island . “ it only seemed natural for me to insert it ( into the comic strip ) , ” bell - lundy said . bell - lundy has heard plenty about life in this province and visited grand bruit with her mother about 10 years ago . “ my mother had never been there before , so it was nice for her to see where her mother lived , ” she said . the stories she ’ s heard from her mother throughout the years affected bell - lundy so much , she ’ s been compiling them and doing research about life in outport newfoundland years ago , with the hopes of putting it together for a graphic novel . “ i ’ m fascinated with it , because we used to visit my grandparents pretty much every other summer when we were kids , ” she said . “ my perspective as an adult , the things my mother told me when i was younger , now when i think about them , have had such a huge impact on me . ” one of the stories she recalls is how her grandmother , as an eight - year - old in the early 1900s , and her two siblings were sent away to harbour le cou from grand bruit to live with other families because their parents were unable to provide for them . “ that really got to me because when my daughter was eight , my mother gave me this glass candy dish . it ’ s not crystal or valuable , but it was the same glass candy dish that her grandmother ( my great - grandmother ) had given to my grandmother when she had left home as an eight - year - old , ” said bell - lundy , who has a daughter and son , both university graduates . “ so , when my mother gave it to me , it was just a real jolt . i looked at my eight - year - old daughter , who was in dance class at the time and thought , ' wow , what those small outport communities had to do to survive was incredible . ' it made me realize how hard that must ’ ve been . “ that ’ s when i really started paying a little more attention to what i had heard over the years . it was around that time , i did that little story line about newfoundland . ” bell - lundy took a second trip to this province with her daughter , “ because i wanted my daughter to see where my mother and grandmother were brought up . the kids hear me talk about it all the time . ” her mother moved out of newfoundland when she was 17 , but bell - lundy still loves to sit and listen her parents talk about their lives in newfoundland . “ once she starts and the longer we chat , the more comes out , ” said bell - lundy , who plans to visit the province again , as she has relatives in port aux basque , corner brook and paradise . “ as she talks , the more she remembers and i just love to hear it . ” cartoonist sandra bell - lundy has touched on some serious topics in her between friends comic strip , including a series featuring one of her characters , susan and her husband harvey ’ s , fertility treatments and subsequently adoption of an eight - month - old girl , emma . ( printed with permission of king features ) - contributedtwitter : telyrosiemore by rosie mullaley
__label__no_relevant canada adds jobs for seventh straight month in january : adp a atoronto ( reuters ) - canada added 25 , 900 jobs in january , the seventh straight month of gains , led by hiring in the trade , transportation and utilities and construction sectors , according to a report from payroll services provider adp released on thursday . the december data was revised to show 46 , 700 jobs were added rather than the 46 , 200 reported earlier . the report , which is jointly developed with moody ' s analytics , is derived from adp ' s payrolls data of about 40 , 000 companies . ( reporting by fergal smith ; editing by edmund blair ) 
__label__no_relevant voice of the people — may 21 , 2020 a ainquiry vitalthe horrific details about the portapique killer should convince nova scotians to fully support the call for a public inquiry by 30 faculty members of the dalhousie university schulich law school . i fail to understand why this timely appeal appears to have fallen on deaf ears : premier mcneil has passed the buck to the federal government , while our public media , ( notably the cbc and the chronicle herald ) , have referred to the letter but unaccountably have failed to publish it . the law faculty ’ s letter rightly calls for an inquiry which not only examines the conduct of the rcmp and emo officials , but also examines systemic issues , which surely must include the deplorable gaps in canada ’ s gun control program , and the virtual disappearance of the policies and programs created decades ago under the governments of pierre elliot trudeau to address spousal assault , family violence and gun crimes . scott burbidge , port williamshardly a discoverythe following blurb appeared in the chronicle herald ’ s today in history , may 15 : “ 1602 : cape cod ( massachusetts , usa ) is discovered by english navigator bartholomew gosnold . ” the only way one could believe the aforementioned statement is to believe that the indigenous peoples of the americas were not human . cape cod had been occupied by the local indigenous people for thousands of years , so how could it be “ discovered ” when that had already happened eons before ? a non - racist blurb would read “ was the first european to visit cape cod . ” this statement about the underlying cause of racism , made by dalhousie university professor susan sherwin , is the best description i ’ ve ever read . it puts into words why it is so hard to get society to recognize , and accept , that the systemic racism that victimizes the first nations peoples of the americas exists : “ . . . the greatest danger of oppression lies where bias is so pervasive as to be invisible . . . ” daniel n . paul , halifaxshort of duckswhile some of us have been aware , over the years , of the diminishing duck population in the halifax public gardens and perhaps were hoping , with the birth of ducklings last summer , that this might reverse , it would seem that this is not to be . over several recent visits to the public gardens , i have only seen one single duck . some might recall pleasant family sunday afternoons which included a visit to the gardens to feed the ducks , when this was still allowed . we might be aware of several family or friends who would , almost daily , take a walk through the gardens to check on the ducklings . it is sad that what , for some , was a highlight of our visit has been allowed to disappear . i live half the year in victoria , b . c . , where it is my pleasure to see hundreds of ducks who live in beacon hill park year - round . admittedly the climate there is more duck - friendly , but i understand that even in nova scotia , in eastern passage , for example , ducks and ducklings can still be seen . perhaps some people in the more duck - populated areas can give our gardens - keepers some hints on how to rebuild the duck population . this would be nice . dr . james burchill , halifaxfaulty logicthe provincial government ( including the premier ) have regularly stated nova scotia was the last province to get covid - 19 cases . they then indicate this is one of the reasons we are the last province to roll out a recovery plan . nova scotia ’ s first case was march 15 , newfoundland and labrador was march 14 , manitoba and saskatchewan march 12 and new brunswick march 11 . it is factually correct to state we were last but , as indicated above , it was only by a few days compared with a number of other provinces . this hardly should provide any basis or logic to justify being the last ( by weeks ) to generate a comprehensive nova scotia covid - 19 recovery plan . bob barton , halifax
__label__no_relevant chief public health officer to meet with the groups criticizing her safety orders public health measures are doing more harm than good , according to a couple of groups in the northwest territories , and they ’ re going to get a chance to confront the chief public health officer with their views . last week , the nwt medical association and business leaders in the territory put forward criticism of dr . kami kandola ’ s safety regulations . the business alliance is calling on decision makers to “ strike a better balance between public health requirements and plans to safely reopen . ” this week , kandola and her team are meeting with both groups to discuss concerns and have a more “ fulsome ” conversation , kandola explained . “ there are always different opinions on the same subject and sometimes it ’ s more important to have the dialogue and talk , and hear each other out , ” she said . the business leaders have called nwt ’ s health measures a prolonged “ induced coma ” with “ businesses and their workers suffering the effects . ” meanwhile , the nwt medical association outlined several adverse effects mounting from covid response restrictions , including : decreased access to social and emotional supports , increased domestic violence , delaying diagnosis of other ailments and negative impacts on physical and mental health . kandola will meet with the business advisory committee on thursday evening and with the nwt medical association on friday afternoon . when asked if she could be swayed to ease restrictions , kandola said she has been “ easing and easing for the past 10 weeks . ” “ every measure i ’ ve taken has been more relaxed , ” she said . “ we ’ ve always had essential services open , but now we have hair salons , massages , opticians . regular offices are open . restaurants are open . we ’ ve opened up indoor sports , outdoor sports , all these different businesses in phase two . ” kandola explained that , “ in a measured approach , [we are] opening safely . ” while the nwt mines have their own machines that test for covid , most samples from nwt residents are sent to alberta , where it can take two to five days to get a response . although the nwt has a genexpert device that can process covid test results in less than an hour without having to be sent to an outside lab , there are limitations . “ the only struggle is that we don ’ t have the cartridges to be able to provide that [for everyone] . so we ’ re really reserving that for high - risk scenarios , ” said kandola . one such scenario , she explains , would be an outbreak within the homeless population , where it wouldn ’ t be possible to trace all points of contact . one scenario that would be cause for concern would be community spread where the source cannot be tracked and the health system becomes strained and overwhelmed , she cautioned . obtaining more genexpert cartridges to increase rapid testing capacity is proving difficult . “ there ’ s a worldwide demand for cartridges . hopefully they ’ ll increase their ability to meet the demand but it ’ s one of those narratives where there ’ s more demand than there is supply , ” kandola said . “ because of where we are , we are testing people who have symptoms . we have a travel restriction in place – this is a good spot to be in and we want to maintain it . ” 
__label__relevant child abuse a big concern during covid - 19 outbreak agencies that serve abused children are bracing for an increase in abuse cases as they reduce their services because of covid - 19 . with governments calling for people to stay home , and schools and some social support services closing , many who work with abused children are worried . for some children , home is not a safe or healthy place . many parents and workers are saying kids are more agitated with these changes , according to dr . roxanne goldade , a calgary pediatrician and the physician lead for the pediatric kids in care program . " they ' re upset . everyone is crammed together in their homes , " she said . " i ' m getting panicked phone calls from child protection workers . the reality is that these kids are at such high risk . " others agree . the ottawa police service issued a statement friday calling for the public to " remain vigilant about the potential for abuse towards women and children . " they asked the public to " pay special attention to the well - being of children and to report any suspicious incident . " " life is already tough for many families , " said christina tortorelli , assistant professor of social work at mount royal university and a former senior administrator in child welfare . " there is a group that is already struggling and living on the edge of their resources . the increased stress , the mental health challenges that this presents for kids and parents γçª that whole thing is like a powder keg . " boost child and youth advocacy centre in toronto investigates 1 , 200 to 1 , 500 cases of child abuse each year . last weekend , with social distancing just getting started , it had 10 new cases - - an unusually busy weekend says karyn kennedy , the centre ' s ceo . " i ' m not surprised abuse is going on but i am surprised it ' s being reported so quickly , " kennedy said . she said she is aware of a few children who are coming into foster care because usual supports are no longer available , worsening the situation . the calgary and area child advocacy centre ' s case numbers were on track to increase from 1 , 500 per year to 2 , 000 this year even before covid - 19 , said ceo karen orser . " it ' s fair to say that we are worried about what all of this is going to mean for families and we expect to see more cases , " she said . kennedy says she didn ' t expect a spike in cases until children had been out of school and daycare longer . " we know that stress is a contributing factor for abuse , especially physical abuse , " she said . that combined with schools being closed , one of the main sources of referrals , she says , is a recipe for disaster . a recently released ontario report with data from 2018 showed that of the more than 148 , 500 child protection investigations that year , nearly 48 , 000 were initiated by concerns from schools . the most common age group referred for investigations was four - to 11 - year - olds . overall , six per cent of children were involved with a child protection investigation with the final conclusion being substantiated or suspected maltreatment in 30 per cent of cases , representing more than 10 , 000 children in ontario . child welfare agencies are being challenged to deliver their services while social distancing is required , protective equipment is needed to go into some homes , and non - essential services are reduced . in a written statement , the ontario association of children ' s aid societies ( oacas ) and the association of native child and family services agencies of ontario ( ancfsao ) said , " like other organizations across the province , ( we ) are taking precautionary measure for social distancing . . . phone lines are open and trained child welfare professionals are answering each call and responding appropriately . " " how each organization is offering support may look a bit different in each community , depending on local circumstances . " most of the work of child welfare agencies is in supporting families in order to keep children safe at home . the ontario study showed that only three per cent of investigations resulted in the child having to move homes . but these are the types of activities being curtailed . janet handy , executive director of the kristen french child advocacy centre niagara , says she has had to cancel supportive services like creative arts programs and trauma treatment groups . " all our programming is suspended , the programs that help kids move on after abuse , the programs that help keep kids and families going , " she said . tara ettinger , director of big bear child and youth advocacy centre in kamloops , b . c . , and a trained trauma counsellor , says that school and extracurricular activities are often seen as safe places for children . many also have connections with counsellors or workers at places like community centres or boys and girls clubs . " sometimes kids and youth tell me that breaks aren ' t that good , " she said . " home is a place where they ' re exposed to domestic violence or child abuse . without kids having a place to escape to and to engage with supportive adults , we will see an increase in child abuse . that is expected . " this week , goldade says a case of suspected abuse in a child with serious developmental issues was shelved because it didn ' t have a high enough acuity rating for the current triaging of cases . " it tortures me , " goldade said . " what ' s going to happen when the next call comes in for that child ? " - - michelle ward is a pediatrician , associate professor and journalist in ottawa . she is currently a fellow in global journalism at the dalla lana school of public health at the university of toronto . this report by the canadian press was first published march 20 , 2020 . 
__label__no_relevant king : why i ' m marching for women on saturday like many busy women , i make lists . they keep me organized , ensure important work gets done , and help me make decisions . here is the list of reasons why i ’ m walking in this year ’ s ottawa women ’ s march : 1 ) . to reduce gender - based violence . every six days , a woman in canada is murdered by her intimate partner . every night , women and children fleeing domestic violence sleep in shelters in ottawa . girls and women are sex - trafficked in cities across canada , enduring substantial physical , psychological and emotional trauma . 2 ) . to highlight economic inequality . although women in canada now achieve higher levels of education than men do , they still earn less – just 87 cents for every dollar men get . this gender wage gap starts early and grows throughout women ’ s careers . in canada , three times more single mothers raise their children while living in poverty compared to single fathers . of people around the world living on less than one dollar a day , 70 per cent are women . 3 ) . to fight the climate crisis . globally , 80 per cent of people displaced by climate change are women . meeting canada ’ s ambitious climate target of net - zero carbon emissions by 2050 will not be accomplished if girls and women are not full participants in this effort . tapping in to the potential talent of half the population is imperative to accelerate clean tech innovation and growth , increase sustainable investments and policy making , and motivate individuals to reduce their carbon footprints . related4 ) . to protect women ’ s right to choose . access to a full range of reproductive health technologies is a human right and supports a woman ’ s health and wellbeing . however , in most countries , the ability to access safe and legal abortions is restricted in law or in practice . even in canada , where abortion is permitted , some women experience limited access to safe abortion services because of a lack of health services or political will . 5 ) . to promote women ’ s health . the medical research gender gap is real . women are often excluded from clinical trials , limiting knowledge of the difference between women ’ s health and men ’ s , and putting women at increased risk from lack of prevention , diagnosis and treatment . for example , more than 30 authors of a recent review by heart & stroke and the canadian women ’ s heart health alliance termed the lack of research into women ’ s cardiovascular disease “ stunning . ” they highlighted that women are under - diagnosed , under - treated and less aware of the risks they face from cardiovascular disease , which is the number one killer of women . 6 ) . to walk in solidarity with indigenous women . indigenous women are assaulted almost three times more often than non - indigenous women . despite representing only five per cent of the population , indigenous women now represent 42 per cent of incarcerated women in canada ’ s prisons . more than 80 per cent of first nations women living on reserves have a median income below the poverty line . 7 ) . to boost the number of women in politics . research shows that , as more women are elected to public office , there is a corresponding increase in policymaking that emphasizes quality of life and reflects the priorities of families , women , and ethnic and racial minorities . and yet , progress to elect more women at all levels of government in canada remains extremely slow , particularly for women of colour and indigenous women . the 2019 federal election saw 98 women elected , a modest gain of 10 in terms of representation from the 2015 election – from 26 per cent to 29 per cent of the 338 seats in the house of commons . of canada ’ s 13 first ministers , caroline cochrane of the northwest territories is the only woman . municipally , just seven of 24 members of ottawa council are women . saturday ’ s women ’ s march is an empowering and energizing opportunity to join diverse women and their allies to say that women ’ s equality is not up for debate . it ’ s also a rallying cry to elect more women for concrete progress on all these issues . susan king is a communications professional and ardent volunteer to elect more women to public office . in ottawa , women will be marching from parliament hill to ottawa city hall , beginning at 11 a . m . for more details , go to : http : / / www . womensmarchottawa . ca / also in the news‘i believe i am going to beat this ’ : councillor diane deans says at first public appearanceadam : what if ottawa ’ s light - rail trains are actually unfixable ? on dit what ? bilinguals who borrow english words follow the language rules , says linguist
__label__relevant ‘strike out domestic violence ’ night big bust in durham , n . c . winston - salem trounced durham 10 - 0 without an exchange of blows tuesday after a bench - clearing brawl monday left one player hospitalized . ten players were ejected following the brawl monday night , which was “ strike out domestic violence ” night at the durham bulls athletic park . warthogs pitcher glen cullop lost several teeth and was knocked unconscious during the brawl . he was listed in stable condition tuesday at durham regional hospital . league president john hopkins said it was still too early to discuss what action the league will take . “ i ’ ve only just received the report from the umpires , ” hopkins said . “ i ’ ll be there tonight to talk to the teams . we ’ ll just have to see what happens after that . “ i will say this - both managers are extremely concerned about the incident and i have confidence that they will use their influence to try to prevent a recurrence . ” winston - salem ’ s curt lyons pitched seven innings for the victory tuesday , and gulls left - hander del mathews took the loss . monday ’ s brawl began after durham ’ s john knott was hit by a pitch from jason kummerfeldt and charged the mound with two out in the bottom of the third . kummerfeldt already had hit danny magee in the first and had given up consecutive homers before hitting knott on the left arm . in the top of third , bulls pitcher jamie arnold had hit aaron boone of winston - salem . “ they had it coming , ” knott said . “ i could tell that the guy intentionally threw at danny magee in the first inning . ” kummerfeldt denied hitting the bulls intentionally . “ i had no control and no command of my pitches , ” he said . “ i kept trying to go inside . i hate the fact that i hit three or four batters , or whatever it was . ” hopkins said a similar incident prompted by batters being hit with pitches occurred last year in a game between wilmington and salem . “ there were fines and suspensions for those involved , as there probably will be in this case , ” he said . “ i just don ’ t know who was involved and to what degree . ” hopkins said the minimum penalty for a player who leaves his position and becomes involved in a confrontation on the field is a two - game suspension and $100 fine . the brawl delayed the game 32 minutes . winston - salem won 10 - 8 . 
__label__no_relevant ‘go back to the old way : ’ first nations return to land during covid - 19 pandemic – nelson star leaders are encouraging their communities to hunt and fish , and to gather berries and traditional medicinesdene national chief norman yakeleya , shown in a handout photo , says he called on people to return to the land to find food and healing during the covid - 19 pandemic . he says the blood of the dene people is in the land . the canadian press / hofirst nations leaders who have called on their communities to return to the land to find food during the covid - 19 pandemic are also seeing people reconnect with their traditions . “ the blood of the dene is in the land , ” said dene national chief norman yakeleya in yellowknife . “ the land loves the dene people and we in turn love the land . ” when the novel coronavirus started spreading across the country , yakeleya encouraged his members to hunt and fish , and to gather berries and traditional medicines . there have been just five confirmed cases in the northwest territories , but fear of the illness spreading in indigenous communities is high , he said . elders still speak about the 1928 flu epidemic that decimated the region , he said . that summer , a hudson ’ s bay co . supply ship sailed down the mackenzie river and spread a virulent strain of influenza to dene and inuvialuit along the route . it ’ s estimated to have killed up to 15 per cent of the indigenous population of the northwest territories . yakeleya recalls his grandmother telling him stories of burying up to 15 bodies a day . what helped the communities heal was reconnecting with the land , and the chief said he ’ s seeing that again now . dene in fort good hope and fort mcpherson have harvested caribou and shared with those unable to hunt , the elderly and the immunocompromised . “ our value as dene , the sharing , has come back and is still alive with the fish , the caribou , ” yakeleya said . hunting also helps avoid high food costs , which yakeleya worries could increase as the pandemic affects the supply chain . on the shores of southern indian lake in manitoba , chief shirley ducharme of the o pipon - na - piwin cree nation has also called on members to hunt and fish , and to share their bounty . right now , it ’ s goose and duck season and the community is excited about boiling the birds in an open - fire pot to get tender meat and soup . “ we crave those when it ’ s not the season to hunt , ” she said . restrictions to limit the spread of the virus have made it difficult for the more than 1 , 100 people on the reserve . they can no longer travel south , there ’ s anxiety about food prices , and , like elsewhere , parents need to keep children who aren ’ t going to school occupied . read more : easing covid - 19 restrictions too soon could jeopardize vulnerable communitiesmanitoba has eased some of its restrictions , but ducharme said o pipon - na - piwin ’ s will remain until at least the end of the month , since overcrowding in households and some people ’ s health problems put them at risk . the first nation formed a pandemic committee and one of its projects is to arrange for kids and their families to connect with elders to learn traditional skills from their backyards . that means baking bannock , preparing geese for cooking , gathering traditional medicines , boiling tea and taking part in scavenger hunts . “ it all entails with traditional and culture things that we have always kept alive and are now carrying on through generations and generations , ” ducharme said . indigenous services canada says there are more than 168 cases of covid - 19 among first nations across the country as of may 8 . la loche , a dene village in northern saskatchewan , has been of particular concern as an outbreak there has been linked to the deaths of two elders . the virus has also spread to nearby first nations . there are no confirmed cases involving manitoba first nations , but chief nelson genaille of the sapotaweyak cree said his community is watching closely and taking precautions . about 1 , 000 people live on the reserve about 600 kilometres north of winnipeg . genaille said he ’ s advised his members to look to their own backyards to find traditional sustenance and food . “ that ’ s where we are at right now with today ’ s epidemic : go back to the old way when you were eating something natural . ” the sapotaweyak have used social media to connect those who need food to people who are able to hunt and fish . the first nation pays for gas for the hunting and delivery trips . genaille ’ s people live on the shores of lake winnipegosis , so they already deal with travelling long distances and paying high food costs . he said a return to the land is necessary during these uncertain times when costs and supply are unpredictable . it ’ s also reminded a lot of members how important their traditions are . “ because of the road restrictions , the only access they do have is back into the wilderness . we are very privileged where we are situated . ” kelly geraldine malone , the canadian presslike us on facebook and follow us on twitter . want to support local journalism during the pandemic ? make a donation here . coronavirusindigenous
__label__no_relevant interprovincial travel ban an unlikely response to combat covid - 19 , b . c . ’ s top doctor says – campbell river mirror we are too dependent on each other , dr . bonnie henry saysrestrictions on travel from outside of canada have , so far , not been applied to travel within the country to curb covid - 19 . b . c . health officials say that it is unlikely due to the interconnectedness of the provinces . the federal government has closed its borders to foreign nationals and non - canadian citizens , as well as placed an official global travel advisory to avoid non - essential travel outside canada . anyone who returns to canada from abroad is being asked to self - isolate for 14 days upon return . on saturday , march 21 , the northwest territories announced it would be shutting its borders to inbound travel by air , land and port for non - residents . related : border between canada and u . s . likely to close friday nightbut an internal travel advisory does not appear to be on the horizon for canada , simply because it would be too difficult to implement , according to b . c ’ s provincial health officer dr . bonnie henry . “ we have had discussions nationally about how best to do that , but the reality is we are all interconnected , ” she said . “ we have family , we have urgent issues we share health care resources in some cases but we also share those essential lines of services like being able to deliver food to get resources to keep things moving all around us . ” instead , henry said , health officials have been focusing on how to ensure travellers are cautious of their health risks , through implementing health checks upon arrival so that people are self - monitoring their symptoms . she urged anyone who has been exposed to the virus and those who aren ’ t feeling well to avoid travelling to other provinces . “ take the same precautions you take when you are here , ” she said , “ like only going to places you need to go with your family , social distancing is being practiced across the board in this country whether you are here or in saskatoon or in whitehorse . ” an internal travel restriction was imposed in italy on march 9 . this came after a lockdown had been imposed on northern italy , the scene of the worst covid - 19 outbreak in the country . that was then extended to the whole country when italian premier giuseppe conte issued a government decree that requires all people in italy to demonstrate a need to work , health conditions or other reasons to travel outside of the regions where they live . chinese officials imposed a lockdown on the city of wuhan , limiting travel in and out of that city and it has been credited with slowing down the spread of the virus . british columbia ’ s minister of transportation claire trevena dismissed the notion of an interprovincial travel ban during a wide - ranging interview march 17 . “ we are one country , ” she said . “ we are looking at ways to continue as one country . ” related : covid - 19 : tofino asks visitors to postpone trips , return homeb . c . is ensuring people can continue to travel around the province and if there is essential travel around the country needed , officials will make sure that continues . “ we are dependant in many ways on the rest of the country , ” trevena said . “ we have economic dependency , we need our supply chains . we have two very important courts that operate . we need to ensure that we continue to have the ability to work as one country . ” it ’ s just as important that people take proper precautions when they travel , such as washing hands regularly , disposing of tissues and keeping at least two metres away from others . read more : more than 400 covid - 19 cases , 10 deaths in b . c . @ashwadhwaniashley . wadhwani@bpdigital . calike us on facebook and follow us on twitter . coronavirustravel
__label__relevant taloyoak man imprisoned for a minimum of 13 years after strangling spouse editor ’ s note : the following story contains disturbing details . a taloyoak man with a history of violent acts against his spouse has been sentenced to life in prison with no eligibility for parole for 13 years after he strangled his partner . justice susan cooper imposed the sentence on march 9 . a jury had earlier found abel kingatook guilty in the second - degree murder of erin qayutinnuaq . kingatook and qayutinnuaq , parents of two young children , had been together for close to 16 years . on june 6 , 2018 , kingatook , who had been drinking alcohol , confessed to his mother that qayutinnuaq “ was gone , ” that he had choked her to death . “ he said he did it because erin ( qayutinnuaq ) was being mean and rude about his mother and him , ” the agreed facts of the case state . “ he said that he tried to revive erin for more than two hours but was unable to . he said that he gave erin hickies on her neck in an attempt to cover up his fingerprints . ” kingatook ’ s mother eventually alerted the local mental health nurse that she was concerned about qayutinnuaq ’ s wellbeing . the mental health nurse contacted the rcmp , who later found qayutinnuaq deceased in the living room of her home . kingatook ’ s criminal record included six prior convictions for violence against qayutinnuaq , four of which involved choking her . at the time of her death , kingatook was under court conditions to have no contact with her and to not drink alcohol . “ the conditions on his release were there to protect erin , ” cooper stated . an individual convicted of second - degree murder can apply for paroleafter serving 10 years of his sentence , unless the court orders a lengthier period . in this case , the crown recommended 15 years before parole eligibility . the defence sought 12 - 15 years . eight members of the jury thought kingatook should serve 25 years in jail before he could apply for parole . cooper , noting that kingatook expressed remorse for his actions , settled on 13 years until he can try to be granted a release from prison . “ for the rest of his life he will live with the fact that he is responsible to the death ofanother human being ; that he is the reason his children grew up without parents . this will never leave him , ” the judge stated . 
__label__no_relevant firearms ban slammed as undemocratic “ i think the impact will be so small and negligible that it calls into question , is the government really using taxpayers money most effectively , to achieve the goal of public safety ? ” sturgeon river - parkland mp dane lloyd said . gun retailers and advocates say the way the canadian government passed its new firearms ban was undemocratic . dane lloyd , mp for sturgeon river - parkland , said the changes were not brought forward for debate or discussion before prime minister justin trudeau , public safety mnister bill blair , justice minister david lametti and deputy prime minister chrystia freeland announced a new crackdown may 1 on firearms , banning the sale , purchase , transport , import and use of around 1 , 500 variations . “ we don ' t really have an opportunity as canadians to debate this in parliament and to push forward with legislation that i think most canadians can get behind , ” lloyd said . the move by the federal government has garnered praise and protest from various groups across the country . michael davison , managing partner at bartons big country in grande prairie , said he was disappointed in how the legislation was introduced . “ this is not the way government is supposed to operate , ” davison said . the new legislation was passed through an order in council , which means it did not get debated by mps . “ there ' s absolutely zero foundation to justify the size and scope of the effort , ” michael davison , managing partner at bartons big country in grande prairie , said . the move came several weeks after a gunman posed as an rcmp officer and launched an attack on rural nova scotia . he killed twenty - two people : some were shot and others died in fires he set . “ enough is enough . banning these firearms will save canadian lives , ” said blair when the legislation was announced . shane vaughan , owner of cx shooters supplies in morinville , said he fully expected this legislation to come in after there had been rumblings for a while throughout the industry . but vaughan said the move will likely not increase public safety or curb firearm violence in the country . vaughan noted the nova scotia shooter did not buy his firearms legally and smuggled them in from the united states . “ ( trudeau ) has just made those firearms that much more valuable on the black market because the bad guys , unfortunately . . . will smuggle firearms across the border , ” vaughan said . the firearms were already heavily regulated , with shooters needing a special licence , course and background check before owning them . davison noted canadian weapons are much different than their american counterparts and canada sells the “ neutered ” versions . davison said the new legislation won ’ t be effective and many canadians don ’ t understand firearms . “ i am astounded at the ignorance of the public , ” davison said . the gun shop managing partner said gun laws at the federal level are too broad . “ the root issue in canada that the u . s . doesn ' t have is we ' re a bigger landmass than the u . s . trying to govern something like firearms at the federal level . so they ' re saying that the same firearms laws should apply in nova scotia as they do in alberta , ” davison said . in alberta , there are a lot of farmers who have open land in rural areas . “ crime ( is ) spiking again – it ' s a real issue for us . we need to be able to protect our homes . you need to be able to deal with a nuisance coyote attacking your family pet in the driveway . we need to be able to respond to the simple little things that people in urban areas don ' t understand , ” davison said . davison called the gun legislation in canada a “ frankenstein ” of piecemeal legislation put together by people who do not understand guns or the industry . “ somebody gets an idea and they make an amendment but they don ' t go to the root of the law that they ’ re amending to actually fix it where it needs to be fixed . so you end up with a band - aid , this patch , another band - aid , another patch . it ' s an absolute frankenstein . it just needs to be stripped and rewritten , ” davison said . dane lloyd , mp for sturgeon river - parkland , said the move is going to be a waste of taxpayers money . the federal government is looking into a buyback program to compensate gun owners . “ i think if they engage in a massive gun buyback , it ' s going to be a waste of taxpayers money . it ’ s wasteful and ineffective . i don ' t think it ' s going to protect any lives , because they ' re only going after to the people who already obey the law , ” lloyd said . the mp said a gun buyback will cost taxpayers $1 billion . “ is a billion dollars a good amount of money to spend on keeping our streets safe ? yes , absolutely . but i think the question i would ask is , is that the most effective use of a billion dollars ? ” lloyd said he would rather see the government focus on finding better tools to stop the smuggling of illegal firearms from the united states and giving police the tools to go after violent criminals who have firearms illegally . “ i think the impact will be so small and negligible that it calls into question , is the government really using taxpayers money most effectively , to achieve the goal of public safety ? ” lloyd said . tracking how illegal firearms are moving into canada can be difficult . statistics canada has very little data on how illegal weapons are moving into the country . an annual report by the rcmp ’ s firearms operations and enforcement support unit put out in 2014 found that 114 of the 229 gun crimes successfully traced in british columbia , alberta , saskatchewan , manitoba , the northwest territories and yukon involved weapons that were supplied domestically . in 2014 in alberta , 15 guns used in crimes were smuggled in while 32 were sourced domestically . most of the guns that were banned in april were used for hunting or for hobby target shooting competitions , vaughan noted . vaughan said he would like to see the details of the upcoming gun buyback program , details of which haven ’ t been release yet , and noted the move will leave many gun shop owners sitting on thousands of dollars in inventory that they cannot sell . family violencethose battling domestic violence welcome the tightening of gun laws . jan reimer , the executive director of the alberta council of women ’ s shelters , said the group is a strong advocate for gun control . “ our main concern is not so much about guns , it ' s about the violence perpetrated on women and how guns , when they are readily accessible , become a vehicle for expressing that violence , ” reimer said . “ we know we ' ve certainly seen some horrific examples of that in the last couple of weeks . women are intimidated , they ' re killed with guns , they ' re shot with guns and it is a weapon of choice in domestic homicides . ” reimer said beyond domestic homicides , guns can also be used to intimidate the family inside the home . “ often in cases , you know , you have the gun propped up here in the corner . it should be appropriately locked and secured but it ' s also there as a symbol of intimidation , ” reimer said . according to statistics canada , more canadians die by handguns than any other type of firearm . in 2018 , 143 people were killed with a handgun , 56 were killed with a rifle or shotgun , two were killed with a fully automatic firearm and 18 died from a sawed - off rifle or shotgun . 
__label__relevant criniti ’ s collapse : restaurant co - founder pleads guilty to dv assault 1 in 6 women experience physical and / or sexual violence from a live - in partner from the age of 15 . these startling new figures from australian institute of health and welfare ' s ( aihw ) new report into the state of family and domestic violence happening right in our own backyard . just a month after the collapse of pizza and pasta chain criniti ’ s , co - founder rima tannous was assaulted by her ex - husband frank criniti in the middle of a busy sydney shopping centre . the couple married and opened their first restaurant together in parramatta in 2003 before the booming business expanded across the country . five years ago , after 11 years together and three children , the pair called it quits in a messy divorce . at its peak , their italian restaurant business had 13 locations spanning sydney , wollongong , newcastle , melbourne , brisbane and perth . but administrators in november last year “ commenced a restructuring phrase ” , the company ’ s website states , resulting in the “ temporary closure ” of a number of stores , leaving eight open . ms tannous now owns a fashion business while court documents state mr criniti “ is / was involved in the criniti ’ s chain of restaurants ” and runs a cafe within a nursery at glenhaven . related : the big mistake at collapsed italian eaterydomestic violenceon december 29 , ms tannous – who has dropped her married name on social media since the separation – was at castle towers shopping centre in sydney ’ s northwest where one of the criniti ’ s restaurants remains in operation . according to agreed facts tendered at parramatta local court and seen today by news . com . au , ms tannous was standing outside the peter alexander pyjama shop and holding bags of shopping when mr criniti arrived . “ the accused has approached the victim where a brief conversation took place , ” the court documents state . mr criniti was heard saying to his ex - wife : “ ‘shut your mouth , i ’ m going to smack you across the head ’ , followed by ‘i ’ ve been thinking about it ’ . ” “ the accused raised his leg and made a sweeping motion and kicked the victim ( ms tannous ) to the right leg , just above her knee causing her immediate pain to the region , ” the facts state . “ the accused ceased as the victim began to get the attention of passers - by with raised voices . “ the accused left the location for a period of about one minute . ” ms tannous then “ took advantage of the timing ” and fled in her vehicle to report the matter next - door at castle hill police station , where she participated in a recorded video interview . according to the court documents , there were “ no visible injuries ” suffered by ms tannous . mr criniti was arrested on york st in sydney ’ s cbd the following day and turned down the option of an electronic interview . on monday , he pleaded guilty to one count of domestic violence - related common assault of his ex - wife between 2 . 20pm and 2 . 25pm on december 29 . he pleaded guilty in january to a separate charge of assault occasioning actual bodily harm , also domestic violence - related , but has denied a second charge . mr criniti remains on bail and is due to face burwood local court in march . in a statement sent to news . com . au ms tannous said she hadn ’ t wanted the incident to be made public “ for the sake of my children ” , but spoke out since it had become “ a talking point for others ” . “ i want to make it clear that domestic violence isn ’ t a women ’ s issue – it is a humankind issue and one that should outrage both women and men . and we need to raise our expectations of what it means to be a man , and confront all forms of disrespect , ” she said . “ men who respect themselves will choose to respect others . and if they don ’ t , i urge them to get help . “ there is no fear in love , and a relationship that involves fear should not be tolerated or dismissed as normal . ” ‘criniti ’ s was my first baby ’ speaking with news . com . au last year , ms tannous said she could not “ stay silent any longer ” about the problems that had plagued the family business . she said she was “ devastated ” at the loss of jobs and the restaurant ’ s faltering reputation with customers who have complained of expensive , poor quality food . “ criniti ’ s was my first baby and i am really proud of what i helped to build at the beginning , ” she said in november . “ i put in a lot of hard work to get criniti ’ s to a place that it was both successful and stable and felt that i could take the time to step back and focus on my children . ” in its heyday , criniti ’ s held lavish store openings with red carpets and music performances . irish - australian dance music group the potbelleez performed at the manly launch in 2013 , attended by a number of australian singers , actors , television presenters and famous chefs . criniti ’ s was also quick to jump on both the social media bandwagon and popularity of food photography with its three - metre pizza and facebook albums of people “ snapped at criniti ’ s ” . 
__label__no_relevant a timeline of some of the deadliest mass killings in canada ' s recent history here are some of the deadliest mass killings in recent canadian history : april 19 , 2020 : seventeen people are killed after a man who at one point wore a police uniform and drove a mock - up cruiser travelled across northern nova scotia . an rcmp officer is among the dead . police say the suspected shooter , 51 - year - old gabriel wortman , was killed after being intercepted by officers in enfield , n . s . aug . 10 , 2018 : a gunman opens fire in fredericton , n . b . , killing two municipal police officers and two civilians : const . sara burns , const . robb costello , donnie robichaud and bobbie lee wright . matthew raymond is arrested and charged with four counts of first - degree murder . april 23 , 2018 : alek minassian drives a white van along a crowded toronto sidewalk , killing 10 people and seriously injuring 16 others . minassian later admits in court to carrying out the attack in retribution for years of sexual rejection and ridicule by women . he ’ s awaiting trial on 10 counts of first - degree murder and 16 of attempted murder . the judge has said the case will turn on minassian ’ s state of mind at the time of the attack , not whether he did it . jan . 29 , 2017 : six people are killed and eight injured when a man goes on a shooting rampage at a quebec city mosque . university student alexandre bissonnette , who had taken far - right political positions on social media , pleads guilty . dec . 29 , 2014 : in the worst mass shooting in edmonton , a man suspected of domestic violence shoots and kills six adults and two young children in two different homes . phu lam then killed himself in a restaurant where he worked . june 4 , 2014 : a man uses a semi - automatic rifle to fatally shoot three rcmp officers and wound two others in moncton , n . b . the rampage by justin bourque was the deadliest attack on the rcmp since four officers were killed by a gunman in alberta in 2005 . april 15 , 2014 : matthew de grood kills five people at a house party in northwest calgary . a judge in 2016 found de grood not criminally responsible for the killings because he was suffering from schizophrenia at the time . march 3 , 2005 : james roszko shoots and kills four rcmp officers near mayerthorpe , alta . , before turning the gun on himself . constables anthony gordon , peter schiemann , leo johnston and brock myrol were ambushed by roszko , 46 , at roszko ’ s farm northwest of edmonton . april 5 , 1996 : angered by his wife ’ s divorce action , mark chahal kills her and eight other members of her family in vernon , b . c . , before shooting himself . sept . 18 , 1992 : a bomb kills nine strike - breaking workers at the giant yellowknife gold mine in the northwest territories . dec . 6 , 1989 : a man with a semi - automatic rifle storms into an engineering classroom at the ecole polytechnique in montreal , asks men to leave and then kills 14 women before turning the gun on himself . gunman marc lepine says he was “ fighting against feminists ” he blamed for his troubles . sept . 1 , 1972 : an arson attack on a downtown montreal night club kills 37 people and injures 64 . gasoline was spread on the stairway of the blue bird cafe and then ignited . most of the deaths occurred in the wagon wheel country - western bar upstairs . three young men from montreal who had earlier been denied entry for drunkenness were convicted and sentenced to life in prison . the canadian press
__label__relevant manhunt continues in nova scotia for accused of stabbing officer , police dog – stettler independent manhunt continues in nova scotia for accused of stabbing officer , police dogbridgewater , n . s . — nova scotia rcmp say they are evacuating part of bridgewater , n . s . , as they hunt for a suspect accused of domestic assault , the stabbing of a police officer in the neck and an alleged attack on a police dog . on tuesday evening , the police force tweeted it was moving people out of the neighbourhood where bridgewater police and the rcmp have been searching for tobias charles doucette . doucette , who is in his 30s , has been charged with attempted murder of a bridgewater police sergeant and assault on doucette ’ s common - law partner . the rcmp warned that doucette may be armed with a knife and said a police dog had been stabbed . as the manhunt continues , they warned citizens in the southern part of town to stay indoors , lock their doors and only answer if bridgewater police or rcmp knocked to escort them from the area . police said earlier they were continuing to actively track the suspect with dogs and a helicopter in a wooded area . doucette is accused of striking an officer in the neck with an edged weapon after police responded to a domestic violence call about 11 p . m . monday night at the bridgewater hotel . the suspect , who police say is in his early 30s , allegedly fled on foot . police said doucette was wearing black shorts , no shirt and no shoes when he was last seen . they did not recover a weapon at the scene . bridgewater police said the officer underwent surgery in hospital while the female victim was treated for minor injuries . this report by the canadian press was first published july 21 , 2020the canadian pressrcmp
__label__relevant sirt investigating domestic assault complaint against nova scotia rcmp officer a anova scotia ' s serious incident response team is investigating a domestic assault and threats complaint against an rcmp member . in a news release friday , the police watchdog agency said rcmp in the northeast district received a report from an officer ' s wife july 5 that she had been assaulted and threatened at the couple ' s home two days earlier . after being notified by rcmp , sirt started an investigation into the incident later that day , the release said . sirt ' s mandate is to investigate all matters that involve death , serious injury , sexual assault and domestic violence or other matters of significant public interest that may have arisen from the actions of any police officer in nova scotia . the police act requires director felix cacchione to file a public report summarizing the result of the investigation within three months of its completion . 
__label__relevant as demand grows , shelter movers needs more volunteers to help women fleeing abuse send this page to someone via emailas weekly calls continue to rise , a free moving service that helps women fleeing domestic abuse is in need of more volunteers — and more funding . since the nationwide charity shelter movers set up a nova scotia chapter six months ago , it says demand for the service in the halifax area has increased to between three and four moves per week . “ nova scotia in general has higher rates of domestic violence than a lot of places in the country and different than the other chapters that we already have existing , ” explained local operations manager brooklyn pinheiro . “ the need in nova scotia has been pretty great , a little more than we were expecting for sure . ” read more : halifax ’ s out of the cold shelter to open in new locationshelter movers operates on referrals from community agencies or shelters and will co - ordinate with women and children fleeing domestic abuse to pick up and move their belongings . it can also make additional arrangements for translation , pet fostering and storage when needed . story continues below advertisementthe organization was founded by nova scotian marc hull - jacquin to fill a void in services for domestic abuse survivors as they navigate the difficult — and often dangerous — process of leaving their abuser . it has chapters in toronto , ottawa and vancouver . nova scotia became the newest addition in july 2019 . it currently has about 70 volunteers who have completed a total of 75 moves . “ we ’ re hoping for the end of our one - year goal to have about 150 ( volunteers ) and we ’ re hoping to complete that many moves as well , ” pinheiro told global news . “ in order to continue and to be able to grow the way that we want to , we do require more volunteers and some more funding as well to make sure that everybody who needs our services in the city can be served . ” 5 : 58 shelter movers shelter moversaccording to statistics canada , a third of canadians report experiencing violence or maltreatment during childhood and women account for 83 per cent of spousal abuse victims . story continues below advertisementhalifax shelter movers volunteer sage beatson said providing support to survivors is rewarding work . “ it can be really moving . there ’ s something really special about reuniting someone with their personal treasures , ” she said . “ it is heavy stuff , but i ’ ve always felt safe on moves and supported by the organization . ” read more : ‘we need to find a solution ’ : bryony house workers call for immediate temporary shelter “ it bridges that really basic and tangible gap , so people are usually very happy to just be connected with their stuff again , ” added pinheiro . “ and each case is a little bit different , whether you ’ re moving someone into a shelter , moving their stuff into storage or moving them into their new spot . we assist on all of those stops along the road . ” if you or someone you know is experiencing domestic abuse , click here to find resources . 
__label__relevant mass shooting should prompt discussion on domestic violence , says liberal mp canada needs to have a conversation about violence against women and ramp up support to address the problem , says lenore zann , the liberal mp who represents the nova scotia riding where a gunman killed 22 and , police say , started the slaughter with an attack on his girlfriend . 
__label__relevant nova scotia premier again rejects calls for provincial inquiry into mass killing the nova scotia government has again rejected calls for a provincial public inquiry into the shooting rampage last month that claimed 22 lives , arguing the federal government is better placed to investigate . but premier stephen mcneil acknowledged thursday there is merit to taking a closer look at domestic violence , which has been identified by police as a key factor behind one of the worst mass shootings in canadian history “ we , as a government , have taken this ( issue ) seriously , ” he told reporters by teleconference after a cabinet meeting . read more : nova scotia shooting : a detailed timeline of how the rampage unfolded “ but i also think there ’ s a broader role here for the men of our province , who need to stand up and send a very strong message that violence of any kind will not be tolerated . and as we raise our sons … we have to ensure that they recognize … that physical dominance of anyone is not acceptable . ” story continues below advertisementthe premier said domestic violence was the most difficult issue he has had to deal with as a member of the legislature . “ this was a horrific event that happened in our province , ” he said of the april 18 - 19 killings , noting that too many women in the province are “ terrified to live in the home that they ’ re in . ” witnesses say the killer had a prior history of domestic violence . the mounties say his rampage began in portapique , n . s . , on april 18 after a domestic assault involving his common - law spouse . police have said she managed to escape into nearby woods where she hid until early in the morning of april 19 . read more : ‘like a stab wound ’ : children of n . s . shooting victims ‘struggling ’ after tragedylast week 33 dalhousie university law faculty members said nova scotia should lead a review of decisions made by the rcmp during the 13 - hour rampage across northern and central nova scotia . the professors want the inquiry to also consider broader social and legal issues that may have been contributing factors , including domestic violence . mcneil said thursday that the federal government “ needs to be the lead ” on any inquiry . the premier said that in addition to the rcmp , other federal entities also deserve scrutiny , including the canada border services agency , given the fact that the killer was in possession of unlicensed semi - automatic firearms from the united states . story continues below advertisementprovincial justice minister mark furey said the province has authority to conduct a public inquiry , but he stressed that it made more sense for ottawa to do the job . “ there are provincial interests , ( and ) we have a role and a responsibility to play , ” he said . “ ( but ) we need the federal lead . ” furey said he was also concerned about delays , noting that it took the province two years to organize a provincial inquiry to determine why former canadian soldier lionel desmond fatally shot his mother , wife and daughter before turning the gun on himself in january 2017 . five weeks after the mass killings in nova scotia , a community at the centre of it all is trying to move on by removing the reminders of the tragedy . tom taggart , the councillor for the community of portapique , n . s . , says he ’ s been working with the victim ’ s families to remove what ’ s left of their burned homes . “ they will be cleaned up and we ’ re moving on , the community moves on , they want to move on and that ’ s what we ’ re going to do , ” says taggart . the charred wreckage of the shooter ’ s home at 200 portapique beach road , which was destroyed by fire , has also been bulldozed . read more : n . s . sets up help lines for citizens struggling amid mass shooting , pandemic “ it ’ s a reminder every day for the people that live in here , ” he says . story continues below advertisementtaggart says the cleanup should be complete by the weekend . he says they ’ ll also be moving the makeshift memorial at the top of portapique beach road to a nearby church . “ we ’ re going to move everything up and consolidate it together , take everything down , and this is just going to be another road in colchester county and we ’ re going to let these folks move on , ” he says . discussions with affected communities are ongoing about a permanent memorial , but he says it ’ s too soon to know what that might look like . “ the sooner that we can get this behind us , the better . ” - with files from global ’ s ashley field
__label__relevant nova scotia spending millions more to combat human trafficking a ahalifax , n . s . —nova scotia is putting $1 . 4 million annually over the next five years into combatting the worst human trafficking rate in the country . this province has 2 . 1 trafficking incidents for every 100 , 000 people . according to a 2009 - 2016 statistics canada analysis , 95 per cent of people trafficked in this country are women and 72 per cent are below the age of 25 . “ this is a gender issue , ” community services minister kelly regan said thursday . “ these are crimes that disproportionately affect women and girls . ” of the 68 human trafficking violation reported in nova scotia between 2009 and 2016 , 58 of them were in halifax , regan said . “ it will take the combined efforts of government , non - profit and community organizations to create meaningful change , ” she said . “ the trauma and fear that is felt with their survivors and loved ones is something that none of us can possibly imagine unless we ourselves are victims of it , ” said justice minister mark furey . dedicating four officers - two from the rcmp and two from halifax regional police - to combat human trafficking has not been enough , furey said . “ what we ’ ve come to realize is its much more complex than just that . ” he announced $150 , 000 to hire an additional crown prosecutor dedicated to human trafficking cases , and $40 , 000 for specialized training to all crown attorneys . the department of justice is also spending $280 , 000 to hire three family and victim support navigators that will provide one - on - one needs - based support . “ they will be the glue that brings everyone together – that builds the capacity from one end of the province to the other , ” furey said , adding the navigators will be working closely with survivors , families , and law enforcement . the province will also reassign six police officers , dedicating them to sexual assault , domestic violence and human trafficking cases . furey ’ s department will be adding an administrator and analyst to the human trafficking unit . “ those uniformed officers have been doing that analysis and administrative work and through discussions i ’ ve had with them individually , they ’ ve identified this particular area as support necessary in order for them to truly focus on the task at hand . ” the province has funded the ywca for two years to provide support for survivors of human trafficking . of the $1 . 4 million the province plans to spend , $375 , 000 will be dedicated to the expanding the ywca ’ s provincial reach in that regard . “ let ’ s be clear , this is about girls , ” said miia suokonautio , executive director of ywca halifax . “ when was the last time we made a multimillion investment publically in girls ? ” suokonautio , who brought her seven - year - old daughter to the announcement at province house , was crying when she said , “ they ’ re our girls . they ’ re my daughter , they ’ re your daughter , and they ’ re our communities ’ daughters . ” the association of black social workers will get $100 , 000 to focus on human trafficking in african nova scotia communities . another $150 , 000 will be used to re - open the jane paul indigenous women ’ s resources centre in sydney and $300 , 000 will go to the elizabeth fry society of mainland nova scotia . 
__label__relevant women ’ s groups call for public inquiry into nova scotia mass shooting women ’ s groups call for public inquiry into nova scotia mass shootingbut that ' s likely months away as legal wrangling over the release of information contained in rcmp search warrants related to the case continues in courtmore than two dozen women ’ s groups have joined a growing chorus of nova scotians calling for a public inquiry into last april ’ s mass shooting . in a letter to nova scotia justice minister mark furey , public safety minister bill blair and federal justice minister david lametti released on july 7 , the directors of 26 women ’ s organizations expressed “ shock ” at the delay in calling for an inquiry . in particular , the groups say they have and “ grave concern ” with recent comments by furey that the province plans to take a “ restorative justice ” approach to any federal - provincial inquiry . the groups , which include toronto ’ s barbara schlifer clinic , rexdale women ’ s centre and ywca toronto , as well as women ’ s groups working with survivors of sexual and domestic violence from bc to pei , point out that there has been a moratorium placed on restorative justice approaches to offences involving domestic and sexual violence in nova scotia . the groups say the litany of questions surrounding the case , and in particular into “ the institutional and individual responses to allegations of domestic violence , ” require the immediate attention and scrutiny of a public inquiry . a restorative justice approach , the groups , “ would most likely involve bringing select people together in circles , meeting with different cohorts privately . “ the public outcry for a public inquiry , ” the groups say , “ was not a demand to have discrete groups of affected individuals participate in a series of private meetings . the demand was for transparency and accountability – for a fully open process . ” prime minister justin trudeau has been quoted on several occasions on the need for a public inquiry . he said during a press briefing last month that questions around a history of domestic violence surrounding gunman gabriel wortman and where he got the rcmp uniform and other police equipment , including a replica rcmp vehicle , used in the rampage , need to be answered . nova scotia premier stephen mcneil also expressed concerns very early on about why an amber alert wasn ’ t issued by the rcmp until wortman ’ s 13 - hour shooting spree was almost over . but he ’ s since backtracked on that . as more contentious details have emerged about the rcmp ’ s handling of the massacre – including speculation that wortman may have been an rcmp informant – there has been more dodging than action on calls for an inquiry . a nova scotia judge , meanwhile , has denied an application brought by the cbc and other media organizations for full access to some 17 search warrants and documents related to the rcmp ’ s investigation into the case . a batch of seven search warrants has already been released publicly with some redactions . david coles , the lawyer for the cbc et al , argued for complete access to the remaining documents . but both the provincial and federal crowns challenged the request saying that complete access may compromise ongoing investigations . the crown also cited the privacy considerations of the family members of victims in its arguments . complicating the legal matters are ongoing investigations of the canada border services agency , which is tracing illegal guns used by wortman during his killing spree , and the serious incident response team in nova scotia , which is investigating the circumstances surrounding wortman ’ s death by the rcmp . while there are rules governing the sealing of court documents related to a police investigation , there are few rules when it comes to the unsealing of court documents . the crown has proposed providing the court with redacted documents and a table itemizing the reasons for those redactions . the crown has also proposed including affidavits sworn by investigators to support reasons for the redactions . but coles argued in court documents that “ the principle of openness in court proceedings , and repudiation of covertness… can only be fully arrived at by requiring the veil of a police investigation in the form of search warrants , and other judicial authorizations , be lifted . ” he ’ s proposed being allowed to cross - examine investigators on reasons for redactions in proceedings to be held in - camera and covered by a publication ban . he ’ s proposed taking an oath of confidentiality . he ’ s also proposed that matters which are not deemed confidential by the court be argued in open court . in a decision handed down july 16 , however , provincial court judge laurel halfpenny macquarrie disagreed with coles . she noted in her decision a 2018 case in which the cbc also sought access to unseal redacted portions of court documents . that decision weighed heavily on the complicated nature of police investigations , and the fact that civil proceedings may flow from a criminal investigation . she laid out a four - stage procedure to deal with redacted sections of court documents moving forward , which has raised the question from coles about timelines for the release of the documents . that could now be months away , as is likely a public inquiry . @enzodimatteo
__label__relevant  “ he was a psychopath ” this article contains graphic descriptions of assault . “ that son of a bitch is dead . ” that was the first thing boe thought when she heard on april 19 that the rcmp had killed a man who on gone on a murderous rampage across nova scotia , leaving 22 dead . the murder spree started in the village of portapique on the minas basin , where boe had once lived . boe now lives in western canada . she granted a telephone interview with the halifax examiner , but asked that we identify her only by her nickname , in part because she still fears for her safety . we ’ ve confirmed her identity and other details of her association with portapique . we are identifying the gunman as “ gw , ” except in quotes when boe identifies him by name . boe said that soon after she and her husband met gw when he first came to portapique , they concluded that he was , in their estimation , a “ psychopath . ” and it was because of gw that she and her husband eventually decided to sell their beautiful home in portapique and move to halifax . but even there she didn ’ t feel safe . “ i knew he was looking for me , ” she said . “ and i was afraid if i go into a store in halifax , and he showed up , what would i do ? ” so after three years in halifax , she and her husband packed up and moved west . but the awful experience of gw has never left her . she says she has been interviewed many times by the rcmp serious incident response team since the mass shooting . she also reached out to linda macdonald and jeanne sarson , two nurses in truro whose self - funded campaign , persons against non - state torture , aims to combat the torture of women and girls that is driven by misogyny . macdonald and sarson were signatories to a recent statement on the mass shooting by seven nova scotia feminists fighting femicide , calling for “ an inquiry with a feminist analysis of the violence . ” boe recounted to macdonald and sarson the history of her terrifying interactions with gw , and especially her extreme concern over the way he was able to get away with repeated abuse of his common - law spouse . after boe spoke with them , macdonald asked her if she would share her story with the halifax examiner . she agreed . it began , boe said , around 2004 , not long after gw bought a house in portapique . they weren ’ t even in that house for a year when [gw ’ s partner] ran over to my house one day saying that gabriel was beating her up and she was scared . she wanted to hide somewhere because he had blocked her car with his truck so she couldn ’ t get out . but she managed to get away from the house . boe said she told gw ’ s partner that she needed to get help , that there were “ a lot of services ” and “ a lot of places ” that would keep her safe . boe said she was unable to convince her , because , according to boe , gw ’ s partner said that there was no way , because he was going to kill her . boe told the examiner that after that she told some people what gw had done , but had trouble convincing everyone : i ’ m going to say that about half of them said , “ oh no , he ’ s such a nice guy , he would never do stuff like that , ” and just pshawed me , basically . she said that gw drank a lot , and often bought alcohol for others . boe said she learned gw had again physically abused his partner , this time on a piece of property he owned : and he had [her] on the ground . he was choking her , screaming at her , telling everybody around… just screaming at her and stuff … it was bad , bad , bad , bad . boe said the assault was witnessed by one of gw ’ s relatives , who was a good friend of hers when he lived in portapique and who is now in a long - term care facility , following a stroke . two other men also watched it happen . when the relative told her about the incident , boe called the rcmp . the responding officers asked if any of the three men would testify to witnessing the assault . boe didn ’ t know . however , she did tell the responding officers that “ he ’ s got a shit load of illegal weapons . i ’ ve seen them . my husband has seen them . ” boe said she and her husband know what weapons canadians are allowed to own with a firearms acquisition certificate , and that they knew gw ’ s were not legal . so she told the rcmp that , and then in their presence , she called gw ’ s relative and put him on speakerphone so the mounties could hear him : so i called [the relative] and i said… “ would you be willing to talk to the rcmp about what happened with [gw ’ s partner] and the illegal weapons that gabriel has ? ” and he said , “ no way , because he ’ s already told me he ’ ll kill me , because he ’ s already told me that he ’ s killed people in the united states . and i said , “ okay … just chill . just relax . don ’ t worry about it . ” i hung up and the rcmp basically said , “ the only way that we can actually get the information on this and prove it … like for her being beaten and strangled and stuff like that . she has to say it . ” and there ’ s no way that she would do that . gabriel had her under his thumb . and i mean , literally . if her family came over , he would be right beside her . so she wouldn ’ t say anything to them about what happened at all . according to boe , at some point , gw pressured his partner to sell her vehicle and to work for him at his denturist office . boe said that gw would leave his partner working in the city , and come to portapique in the company of other women . when boe spoke with his partner about this , she then confronted gw . and that ’ s when it “ got scary ” for boe : …because he dragged her back up to our house . my husband was downstairs . i was upstairs . i had a little bit of the flu . so i was in bed . it was during the daytime . he pounded on the door . [my husband] opens it . and gabriel starts screaming …boe said that when she heard the obscenities , she went downstairs and told him , in so many words , that she had merely been telling the truth to his partner . gw then “ grabbed hold ” of his partner and “ dragged her back out . ” according to boe , after that her husband had to go abroad for work and the situation got worse . when boe came home from work , she would park her car and go inside . and i noticed him [gw] coming up the road . he stopped his vehicle right in front of my house . he got out of the vehicle , stood there and stared at the house for a good half hour , scaring the shit out of me . and this happened about four days in a row . when her husband returned home , she said she told him they had to move away from portapique . boe has profound concerns about the well - being of gw ’ s partner , and believes that people should be aware of “ the hell that she lived through , ” and what it ’ s like for a female to be assaulted constantly and to be controlled by a violent male partner . boe hopes that she will be looked after and that there will something in the estate for her to “ make sure she is set . ” gun control and red flag lawsboe fully supports the federal government ’ s may 1 ban on military - grade assault weapons : i call them weapons of mass destruction . those ones should not be allowed at all . the only people that use those type of weapons are people that are in the military . when you ’ re fighting in a war , that ’ s it , you do not use them anywhere else . they ’ re not used for hunting . they ’ re not . you should not be able to get them , period . and gun control , i think right now , because of what ’ s been happening — and it may get worse with those coronavirus stuff going on — this is my way of thinking : anybody that applies for an fac * [firearms acquisition certificate] should be psychologically tested first before they get an fac , and have no criminal charges , no criminal past , nothing like that . it ’ s just wrong . they don ’ t do good enough background checks . military grade equipment should not be in the hands of civilians at all . and like even retired military guys . there is no reason to have access to any of those type of weapons . none . because they ’ re meant to kill . boe also supports red flag laws , which canada ’ s public safety minister bill blair announced the federal government would be bringing in “ to allow law enforcement to remove firearms from dangerous situations to make sure they don ’ t become deadly . ” said blair : we will empower victims , communities , doctors , families . we will empower canadians to render their situation safe and where there are firearms in a situation that could be dangerous , we know that situation can become deadly and red flag laws will empower us to keep canadians safe . boe said there were lots of red flags about gw : when i made the first report to the rcmp , i wish they had acted on it . they would have found all his weapons . because at that time , like he had already been charged with assault before . so there were big red flags going up there . and she thinks red flag laws that would allow the police to seize weapons from anyone posing a risk to themselves or others would be good . right now , if somebody sees somebody assaulting somebody , beating somebody , whether it be a guy or a girl , whatever , and they report it , it should be actioned immediately . not with the consent of the person that ’ s being beaten , whether it be a guy or girl . same with weapons : if you know somebody ’ s got weapons or has purchased weapons from the states , they didn ’ t come from canada , and they don ’ t have an fac , that ’ s a big red flag there . report them . and the rcmp or whoever is investigating should do it right away — like yesterday . boe also said she “ really , really ” feels for the rcmp , and imagines that they are also “ going through hell , ” given what they went through and that they also lost a “ comrade , ” heidi stevenson , in the mass shooting . her only regret is that they weren ’ t able to prevent the tragedy by seizing gw ’ s weapons . said boe : and the one , the only thing that could have been handled differently , is when i reported at first and nothing was done . * thefirearms acquisition certificate was replaced by the possession and acquisition licence in 1995 . boe was familiar with the older terminology . the halifax examiner is an advertising - free , subscriber - supported news site . your subscription makes this work possible ; please subscribe . some people have asked that we additionally allow for one - time donations from readers , so we ’ ve created that opportunity , via the paypal button below . we also accept e - transfers , cheques , and donations with your credit card ; please contact iris “ at ” halifaxexaminer “ dot ” ca for details . thank you ! 
__label__no_relevant man in violent nunavut arrest video wants officer charged the federal indigenous services minister said he ' s " outraged " and " pissed " by the continuing pattern of police violence against indigenous people in canada , in the wake of a video circulating of a man in kinngait , nunavut , who was arrested after being struck by the open door of a moving police pickup truck . the man , who was also " viciously attacked " by another inmate in an rcmp cell following the arrest , says he wants to take legal action against the officers who arrested him . " i ' m not happy with what happened to me at the hands of the police , " said the 22 - year - old man , whose identity cbc news is choosing not to reveal . he gave his interview in inuktitut . " i want to sue those police officers and charge them , as encouraged by my lawyer . " cbc news spoke to the man in person this week , after he was released from hospital in iqaluit after being medevaced from kinngait — a hamlet of around 1 , 500 people formerly known as cape dorset — early tuesday morning . he is recovering from an alleged beating by another man he was paired with in a cell at the kinngait rcmp detachment . the man who was in the cell with him has been charged with aggravated assault . ​​​​​rcmp arrested the man in the video around 11 : 30 p . m . monday for public intoxication . but the video of that arrest — where he is shown struck by a police vehicle and forced into a car — has left residents upset and raising questions about police accountability in the territory . " i saw the video , " the man said . " it was sad and depressing and i was worried about it . i think the cops that did that to me should be removed . " the man says he was drinking with a relative that night and has little recollection of the night itself . " i remember staggering around just before i got hit by the rcmp vehicle . i was told . . . that i had been beaten up in the holding cell . " watch | rcmp vehicles knocks over man during arresta video shared on social media appears to show the door of an rcmp vehicle knock down a man police were trying to take into custody in kinngait , nunavut . 1 : 24during a news conference friday , indigenous services minister marc miller said he " watched in disgust " various videos of police brutality incidents in canada recently , including the video of this incident . " a car door is not a proper police tactic . it ' s a disgraceful , dehumanizing and violent act , " miller said , then turned to the fatal shooting of an indigenous woman during a police wellness check thursday morning in new brunswick . " when i first saw the report , i thought it was some morbid joke . " miller said there needs to be a full accounting of the incidents . " i ' m pissed , i ' m outraged . . . . this is a pattern that keeps repeating itself , " miller said . watch | indigenous services minister reacts to police action on indigenous peopleindigenous services minister marc miller says there is a ' pattern ' of police violence against indigenous people in canada , citing the shooting death of a new brunswick woman earlier this week and a video that appears to show police in kinngait , nunavut , striking a man with the door of a pickup truck . 2 : 00the ottawa police service was en route to nunavut friday to begin an investigation into the man ' s arrest . the arresting officer has since been removed from the community , and nunavut rcmp are doing separate investigations into the officer ' s conduct and the alleged in - cell beating . the man from the video will be approached as part of these investigations , rcmp say . ' behaviour that we do not condone ' : rcmpnunavut ' s v division rcmp commanding officer says the use of force shown in the video was unnecessary . " i was very shocked when i saw it , " chief supt . amanda jones told cbc news on thursday . " it ' s a behaviour that we do not condone . it is not a practice that we teach . " she said a call would have to include a dangerous weapon and the risk of " grievous bodily harm " for an officer to justify hitting a person with a vehicle . all of the officers on duty that night are shown in the arrest video . jones said they made the arrest for intoxication right after responding to a call involving a firearm and while en route to a domestic violence call . the rcmp detachment building in kinngait , nunavut . ( sara frizzell / cbc ) " i think they were pretty close to the file that they just left , and that ' s why all the members seem to be there on scene . i can ' t answer why all five would want to get involved on this . " a nurse checked on the man at the rcmp detachment because he was " agitated , " jones said , and couldn ' t be safely brought to the health centre . as for the injuries that followed from doubling two men in a cell , jones said rcmp policy is to keep people alone , but there are only four cells in the kinngait detachment , and that night it was over capacity . jones said initially the man was placed alone in a cell , but another man was put in with him because one of the other cells held four men , another held two women and the third held a man who was behaving violently . all five officers working that night were out on calls when the man , who jones referred to as " our subject struck by the police vehicle , " was attacked . the people in cells were monitored by a guard , who contacted officers to come back . the man was later medevaced to qikiqtani general hospital in iqaluit . court documents say he was too intoxicated to defend himself from being kicked , punched and stomped on . should police investigate police ? this marks a sixth investigation of nunavut ' s rcmp v division launched by the ottawa police service this year . when these investigations are done , the ottawa police gives those reports to the nunavut rcmp , who then provide them to the nunavut government . rcmp chief supt . amanda jones ordered three separate investigations that will look into the arrest , the officer ' s conduct , and the alleged beating that happened in the detachment cell . ( michel albert / rcmp v division ) it ' s the territory ' s decision whether or not to release those reports , jones said . they are rarely made public . in a news release thursday evening , nunavut tunngavik incorporated called it unacceptable for a police force to investigate another police force , and called for independent police oversight . " the consistent and increasing frequency of these violent incidents involving the police indicate these are not one - off events , these are systemic issues within the justice system , " the release said . jones has advocated for civilian oversight for the rcmp . whether or not the investigation results are different , she said , " the trust would be there and transparency would be there if it was an external body that provided the investigation . " the officer whose vehicle door hit the man is still in nunavut , but rcmp are not releasing his whereabouts , citing his safety . his weapons have been removed and he is doing administrative work . should any charges stem from the ottawa police report , these would impact the nunavut rcmp ' s internal code of conduct investigation , jones said . repercussions faced by the officer could range from a pay cut to a loss of rank or even dismissal . " i want nunavummiut to know that they are safe in our communities , " jones said . " he will be accountable for his actions . " justice minister says video isn ' t racistnunavut justice minister jeannie ehaloak said she was " outraged " by monday ' s arrest in kinngait . " nunavummiut deserve a police force that is respectful to all citizens no matter their offence , ethnicity , gender or religion , " she said . while she called the arrest violent and unacceptable , ehaloak said she did not see racism in this case . i don ' t think there was any racism in the video . none at all . - nunavut justice minister jeannie ehaloak " i don ' t think there was any racism in the video . none at all , " she said , adding that she hopes residents won ' t fear the police because of this one video . ehaloak is hoping to start a pilot project for police body cameras similar to one being tried in nunavik . asked by cbc news if there is racism in nunavut ' s police force , jones said that ' s a call to be made by the people who may be experiencing racism . nunavut ' s minister of justice jeannie ehaloak says her department is looking at how to introduce police body cameras in the territory . ( david gunn / cbc ) " if there is racism in canada , then we ' ll have racism in the rcmp . we absolutely don ' t tolerate it , " she said . " we do try very hard to ensure that when we have members that are selected to come up to nunavut to serve the inuit communities that there are no prejudices . " jones says nunavut rcmp are open to using cameras on vehicles or uniforms , but need a system to store and process video , and the financing to do it . national rcmp are reviewing this possibility now , she said . " it would help our members be able to explain the situation that they ' re in , " jones said . " it ' s for us and for everyone ' s safety . for the real picture . " 
__label__no_relevant ‘i ’ m pissed , i ’ m outraged ’ : federal minister calls out police violence against indigenous people – maple ridge news indigenous services minister marc miller listens to chiefs as they line up to speak during a session at the afn special chiefs assembly in ottawa , tuesday , dec . 3 , 2019 . the canadian press / adrian wyldindigenous services minister marc miller did not parse words on police violence against indigenous people , after two officer - involved incidents this week – one with a man in nunavut , the other the fatal shooting of b . c . woman chantel moore in new brunswick . while the news conference on friday ( june 5 ) was intended to be an update on covid - 19 cases in indigenous communities , miller was questioned by reporters about the two recent incidents and racism . the minister said that he “ watched in disgust ” a graphic video showing an rcmp officer in nunavut ramming his car door into a 22 - year - old inuk man walking along a road on monday evening . the young man , who has not been identified by police , was arrested for domestic assault and failing to comply with probation orders and taken into police custody . the video shows him notably intoxicated . he was later beaten by another man in the same holding cell and had to be airlifted to hospital . miller said he had also been briefed on the the fatal police shooting of moore , a member of the tla - o - qui - aht first nation near tofino on vancouver island . the 26 - year - old mother had recently moved to edmundston , n . b . to be closer to her daughter . read more : alberni valley , west coast first nations gather to remember woman fatally shot by policeher boyfriend , who lives in ontario , called edmundston police early thursday morning to conduct a wellness check on moore . she ended up being shot and killed . police said in a statement that moore was holding a knife and making threats . moore ’ s family has said that she was shot five times by the officer . “ i don ’ t understand how someone dies during a wellness check , ” miller said . “ when i first saw the report i thought it was some morbid joke . ” the family of moore and the young man deserve answers , the minister said . “ frankly along with many canadians , indigenous peoples living in canada , politicians in canada , i ’ m pissed , i ’ m outraged , ” he said . “ there needs to be a full accounting of what has gone on . this is a pattern that keeps repeating itself . ” the two incidents are being investigated separately by out - of - province civilian watchdog agencies . miller also spoke on the idea of making body cameras mandatory for police forces – saying that he is open to the idea but noted such measures haven ’ t stopped police violence over the border . instead , miller pointed to proper training and recruitment as necessary steps to end these incidents . on thursday , bc rcmp released a statement saying that the force is “ deeply saddened by the anguish expressed by so many in the aftermath of george floyd ’ s death in minnesota . ” deputy commissioner jennifer strachan detailed a number of steps taken to “ ensure biased - free policing , ” including a dedicated hate crime team which provides advice and guidance on how to investigate hate crimes . last week , the independent investigations office in b . c . forwarded a report to bc prosecution service for the consideration of excessive - force related charges against five rcmp officers to crown counsel after an indigenous man who was believed to be casing cars was killed during an arrest in 2017 . @ashwadhwaniashley . wadhwani@bpdigital . calike us on facebook and follow us on twitter . want to support local journalism during the pandemic ? make a donation here . 
__label__relevant coronavirus : rise in violence against indigenous women sparks calls for mmiwg plan send this page to someone via emailwith reports of a sharp rise in violence against indigenous women as covid - 19 restrictions keep families stuck in their homes , concerns are being raised about whether the pandemic could delay the promised june delivery of a national action plan on missing and murdered indigenous women . the native women ’ s association of canada has been conducting a series of nation - wide , grassroots consultations with their local member offices and with indigenous women to determine how covid - 19 has been affecting first nations , inuit and metis women in canada . the preliminary results reveal a deeply concerning spike in the number of indigenous women who say they are facing more violent incidents since the pandemic began , often by an intimate partner . a survey of more than 250 indigenous women found one in five reporting they ’ ve been a victim of physical or psychological violence over the past three months . story continues below advertisementalso , the preliminary results of this survey and two additional consultations suggest more of these women are concerned about domestic violence in the midst of this pandemic than they are about the virus . native women ’ s association president lorraine whitman says she finds the numbers “ shocking ” and is deeply concerned about the safety of indigenous women in canada , as public health officials continue to ask people to remain in their homes . “ we know in a perfect world staying at home is a safe place , but it isn ’ t a perfect world and it isn ’ t a safe place for some of our women and families , ” whitman said . “ with the social distancing and self - isolation , women have had to stay in a home in a confined area with their abuser or perpetrator and they cannot escape . there ’ s nowhere where they can go . ” 2 : 06 coronavirus outbreak : officials praise funding for indigenous businesses , say they are ‘backbones of communities ’ across canada coronavirus outbreak : officials praise funding for indigenous businesses , say they are ‘backbones of communities ’ across canadathe federal government did commit $40 million in funding to women and gender equality canada , with up to $30 million earmarked for the “ immediate needs ” of shelters and sexual assault centres . another $10 million was provided to indigenous services canada ’ s existing network of 46 emergency shelters on reserve and in yukon to support indigenous women and children fleeing violence . story continues below advertisementbut whitman says many shelters and sexual assault centres in the country are not run for or by indigenous people , which is why many first nations , inuit and metis women won ’ t access them , even if they ’ re in trouble . “ they don ’ t have that comfort zone there and they ’ re not culturally influenced or inclusive of the indigenous values that we have and our traditions and ceremonies . ” even before the pandemic began , indigenous women in canada were facing higher levels of violence and abuse _ a stark reality laid bare in the national inquiry into missing and murdered indigenous women and girls . the situation has been made worse by the arrival of covid - 19 in canada , whitman said . that ’ s why , earlier this week , the native women ’ s association held a virtual roundtable with foreign affairs minister francois - philippe champagne and international development minister karina gould urging the federal government to implement a national plan for meeting the inquiry ’ s 231 “ calls for justice . ” the urgency has been heightened by the global pandemic crisis , whitman said . “ we need to have some action . the families of the missing and murdered women and girls and two - spirited ( individuals ) , we ’ re tired of talk . if you ’ re going to talk the talk , walk the walk . and i ’ m not seeing that . ” story continues below advertisement1 : 29 coronavirus outbreak : federal ministers comment on nunavut ’ s first confirmed case of covid - 19 coronavirus outbreak : federal ministers comment on nunavut ’ s first confirmed case of covid - 19crown - indigenous relations minister carolyn bennett said in december the federal government would release its national action plan to respond to the inquiry ’ s findings in june of this year , which would mark the one - year anniversary of the release of the calls for justice . in ottawa on saturday , prime minister justin trudeau said work on this national response to the inquiry ’ s work has been ongoing and that this work is “ more important than it has ever been . ” “ this government has worked from the beginning to give more support to shelters and organizations and networks that are supporting victims of family violence or gender - based violence . we will continue to do that work , ” he said . “ we will continue to work very hard on that national action plan coming from the missing and murdered inquiry . this is a priority that continues and is even intensified because of this crisis . ” story continues below advertisementmichele audette , who worked as a commissioner on the mmiwg inquiry , says she believes work on the national action plan — which she says must also include commitments from the provinces and territories _ has been delayed by several events over the last year , including the election . however , she believes even if an action plan had already been in place before the pandemic began , she ’ s not convinced it would have changed the sad realities now being faced by indigenous women experiencing increased incidents of violence . “ i don ’ t know if we would see a change right away because it ’ s rooted so deeply in the culture , the colonial system , ” audette said . “ because we are facing the impact of colonialism , we are not a top priority and we can see it with covid right now . ” 3 : 06 coronavirus outbreak : first nations communities see increase in covid - 19 cases coronavirus outbreak : first nations communities see increase in covid - 19 casesshe stressed the need for all levels of government _ federal , provincial , municipal and indigenous _ to ensure shelters , social workers and first responders who serve indigenous populations are well supported so they can respond to issues of violence against women . story continues below advertisementndp mp leah gazan says the liberal government has failed to adequately respond to the mmiwg inquiry ’ s work . “ with the increasing rate of violence , which has occurred during covid , we are now in an even worse crisis , ” she said . “ we need to move swiftly . this is a life and death situation . ” 
__label__no_relevant giving birth where the family is inukjuak , quebec — the woman ’ s moans of pain mingled with the intermittent beeping of the fetal heartbeat monitor . her midwife gently coached her in their mother tongue , inuktitut , as the morning sun cast a cool light across the floor . finally , a baby ’ s wail broke through . his shrill cry was a reminder of what inuit midwives have reclaimed — the right of pregnant women to choose to give birth in their hometown after years of being pressured to travel south to have their babies . as canada tries to make amends for its brutal history of relations with its indigenous population , midwives and other members of the community in inukjuak , a town of around 1 , 800 people in a remote region of quebec , point to the clinic as an example of a way forward . today around three out of four pregnant women in the town give birth in its clinic , attended to by inuit midwives . 
__label__relevant inuit women ' s group frustrated by lack of communication on mmiw inquiry almost two months since the inquiry into missing and murdered indigenous women and girls began its work , the national inuit women ' s group says it ' s had little communication with the commission . " we ' re frustrated , " says rebecca kudloo , president of pauktuutit . " we don ' t even have phone numbers to contact them . there ' s no connection . " kudloo says her organization had not heard a word about the timeline or the work of the inquiry since august when the names of the commissioners were announced . finally today , pauktuutit staff told cbc that chantel courcy , the interim executive director of the national inquiry , held a last - minute phone conference with all the national indigenous organizations informing them that the commission has been swamped with administrative tasks and promising more regular updates in the future . ​the inquiry officially started its work on sept . 1 , and is expected to last more than two years . kudloo says a great deal of preparation is needed in the north to ready affected families to participate meaningfully in the inquiry . " people look to us to provide them information about the inquiry and we haven ' t heard a thing , " she said before the call . rebecca kudloo , president of pauktuutit , says the group has not heard a word about the timeline or the work of the inquiry into missing and murdered indigenous women since august . ( sandy tooma / cbc ) in september , judge marion buller , the chief commissioner of the inquiry , promised that inuit would not be sidelined . cbc news contacted the chief commissioner as well as staff working on the commission for comment . after two weeks , cbc received a response by email stating " the national inquiry wishes to acknowledge pauktuutit ' s concerns and commits to remaining in regular contact with all nio ' s ( national indigenous organizations ) . " government of nunavut prepares for inquiryearlier this month keith peterson , nunavut ' s justice minister , issued an order under the nunavut public inquiries act , which gave the federally - appointed mmiw commission the authority to hold the inquiry in nunavut . nunavut justice minister keith peterson wants the inquiry in nunavut to pay close attention to the issue of domestic violence . ( sima sahar zerehi / cbc ) peterson says he wants the inquiry in nunavut to pay close attention to the issue of domestic violence . " our incidence of violence is 11 times the national average , so we feel they should look into institutional policies and practices implemented in response to violence experienced by inuit women and girls in nunavut . " the territorial government has also formed a working group tasked with providing guidance on a made - in - nunavut inquiry . the group includes the qulliit nunavut status of women council , nunavut tunngavik inc . , and the rcmp . to assist families who wish to take part in the inquiry or who want to share their stories , a toll - free help line has been established by nunavut victim services : 1 - 866 - 456 - 5216 . 
__label__no_relevant what ’ s next for nunavut alaska ? a vote after last week ’ s nunavut alaska constitutional convention , concerns were raised in the community about what comes next . listen nowwhat a group of representatives from roughly 13 of the 56 yukon - kuskokwim tribal villages were able to do when they convened was agree to hold a vote on november 7 . in the provisional government ’ s first press release , they say that a “ ballot will [also] show candidates for president , vice president and clerk , ” as well as a vote for a united government . but the road ahead won ’ t be easy . over the three days that the provisional government met , they were only able to touch on a few topics such as land jurisdiction , taxation , education , health care , and the courts , along with various specific issues impacting the yk delta like domestic violence . these are all areas that attendees said that they hoped to improve under a united government , once one is created . but on the kyuk friday call - in show “ talk line , ” several callers voiced their concerns , some anonymously , that not all 56 tribal villages were represented and that 13 villages did not constitute a quorum . some callers said that the convention translated into taking action without majority consent . “ i like the vision alright , but how they ’ re trying to introduce themselves , it ’ s just not right . a lot of the people are like , ‘oh , you know , if they were doing it the right way somebody upstairs powerful would allow it to happen , because he ’ s the master of all events , ” one anonymous caller said . the nunavut provisional government did not set about creating a governing body for the region ’ s villages just yet . that would only come about if tribal citizens of the 56 villages in the yk delta approve it during the proposed november 7 vote . “ like one of the elders said here , we ’ re a sleeping giant . our region controls afn , majority of our people , but we are fragmented : calista , ykhc , avcp . we ’ re going north , south , east and west ; there is no direction and there ’ s a lot of voices , ” george guy with kwethluk incorporated said . for instance , even the new government ’ s name “ nunavut ” , which means “ our land , ” is just a placeholder until citizens of all 56 tribal villages vote on it . guy , like many at the meeting , was concerned with tribal villages not being able to exercise fundamental rights – a point which even the anonymous caller may agree on . “ i have observed the past 30 years the political regime in our region , it ’ s like a record player . one sing , one record player going around and around . we are in the 21st century , but we live in the 19th century . that ’ s why they call us the last frontier , ” guy said . read the full nunavut provisional government press release by clicking here . 
__label__no_relevant covid - 19 update for may 14 : here ' s the latest on coronavirus in b . c . article contenthere ’ s your daily update with everything you need to know on the novel coronavirus situation in b . c . for may 14 , 2020 . we ’ ll provide summaries of what ’ s going on in b . c . right here so you can get the latest news at a glance . this page will be updated regularly throughout the day , with developments added as they happen . we apologize , but this video has failed to load . tap here to see other videos from our team . try refreshing your browser , or covid - 19 update for may 14 : here ' s the latest on coronavirus in b . c . back to videocheck back here for more updates throughout the day . case summaryas of the latest numbers on may 14 : • total confirmed cases in b . c . : 2 , 392 ( 372 active cases ) • new cases since may 12 , 2020 : 15• hospitalized cases : 59• intensive care : 14• covid - 19 related deaths : 135• recovered : 1 , 885• long - term care and assisted - living homes currently affected : 15• acute care facilities currently affected : 5the next update is thursday at 3 p . m . in - depth : covid - 19 : here are all the b . c . cases of the novel coronavirusguides and links• covid - 19 : here ’ s everything you need to know about the novel coronavirus
__label__no_relevant sanders and schumer push for new round of relief ; coronavirus expected to cost u . s . economy trillions this biggest names in basketball — from michael jordan to lebron james , kareem abdul - jabbar to doc rivers — have turned their attention to the nationwide protests that followed the police killing of george floyd in minneapolis . nba commissioner adam silver , who has spent months plotting the league ’ s course in response to the coronavirus pandemic , told staffers in a memo that he was watching , too . “ just as we are fighting a pandemic , which is impacting communities and people of color more than anyone else , we are being reminded that there are wounds in our country that have never healed , ” silver wrote sunday . “ racism , police brutality and racial injustice remain part of everyday life in america and cannot be ignored . ” there is chaos across the nation , with cities under curfew to prevent more destruction and protesters clashing with police . for silver , who held calls last week with the nba ’ s general managers and governors to talk through return - to - play scenarios , an impossible job just got that much more difficult . 
__label__relevant nunavut premier says internal panel will review workplace harassment policy “ we want women to be able to report harassment and feel safe , that it ’ s ok to report it ” by beth brownan internal panel composed mostly of women who work at the government of nunavut will review the gn ’ s policy on workplace harassment , says nunavut premier joe savikataaq . women who serve as deputy ministers , human resources experts and inuit qaujimajatuqangit coordinators will make up most of the members of the working group that will look at the policy , savikataaq said on tuesday , oct . 23 . “ we want women to be able to report harassment and feel safe , that it ’ s ok to report it and that it will be dealt with in a proper and timely manner , ” he said . “ we have to have the women ’ s view . as a guy i have a hard time getting the women ’ s view in there . it ’ s different . ” these remarks came in response to a question from arviat north–whale cove mla john main , who asked what the timeline would be for the review that savikataaq announced oct . 11 on the international day of the girl . “ the timeline would be to coincide with the separation of hr [human resources] from finance as a standalone department , ” savikataaq said . the gn ’ s new human resource unit , now part of finance , will start acting as a stand - alone department early in 2019 , he said . “ all policies in there will be enhanced and examined at the time , ” he said . the harassment review will ensure that the gn ’ s policy provides the support and resources needed for women who experience inappropriate behaviour or sexual harassment , savikataaq said when he announced the review . “ this is a very important issue . no matter where we are , we have to have good treatment of women , ” main said . a move to review the policy comes on the heels of iqaluit mayor madeleine redfern ’ s statement to a house of commons hearing last month about abuse and sexual harassment faced by nunavut women at the hands of male leaders and public officials . in a member ’ s statement that came prior to the premier ’ s statement about the harassment review , iqaluit manirajak mla adam arreak - lightstone highlighted the work done in iqaluit in september by the ongoing inquiry into missing and murdered indigenous women and girls . “ too many families in nunavut suffer from domestic violence and sexual abuse , ” lightstone said . “ unfortunately , both have a stigma associated with them and are difficult to talk about . ” ending that stigma is “ our responsibility ” arreak - lightstone told the house , adding that he is glad to see efforts made by the current government to address violence against women in nunavut . 
__label__relevant iqaluit mla challenges gn to crack down on child sex abuse in nunavut “ we need to train our teachers and our nurses how to identify symptoms and flags of child abuse ” by beth browniqaluit - manirajak mla adam arreak lightstone is demanding that the government of nunavut do more to address rampant sexual violence inflicted on children in nunavut . “ i ’ m going to raise an ugly topic that people do not like to address—it ’ s the issue of child abuse in nunavut , ” lightstone said in the nunavut legislature on tuesday , feb . 19 , during a member ’ s statement on the first day of the three - week winter sitting . “ it is our duty to stand up for those who can ’ t stand up for themselves , ” he said . citing a report by the arctic children and youth foundation , lightstone said that nunavut children experience rates of abuse 10 times higher than the national average . there are almost 500 registered sexual predators in nunavut , lightstone said , quoting figure the department of justice had given him . “ we always hear about it in the media … and yet it appears that nothing is being done to address it , ” he said . “ i call on this government to create a campaign to raise awareness for frontline workers , as well as parents and children . we need to train our teachers and our nurses how to identify symptoms and flags of child abuse . ” do nunavut prosecutors struggle to win guilty verdicts ? “ these children making allegations of child sex abuse have to take part in court proceedings and that can be traumatic for them , ” said lightstone , adding that often , children are forced to relive trauma when they are re - interviewed about their experience with abuse . lightstone asked justice minister jeannie ehaloak if she sees any trends in how allegations of child sex abuse are investigated in nunavut . and he asked if nunavut prosecutors struggle—as other jurisdictions have—to win guilty verdicts in cases where child sex abuse is alleged . “ do prosecutors in nunavut face similar difficulties , and what are they ? ” lightstone asked . ehaloak said she didn ’ t know , but she said she would find out if nunavut judges and lawyers do face challenges when it comes to prosecuting child sex abuse allegations . “ the increase in violations against children in nunavut is troubling , ” she said , adding that known violent crime against children has doubled in nunavut over the past few years , in part because more children are reporting incidents . support for children who are victimized comes through community justice workers , family services staff and the rcmp , she said . “ there are services available in our community for those children who need assistance to carry on with their daily lives , to not walk the streets in fear of being revictimized , ” ehaloak said . lightstone ’ s statement comes in the wake of other media reports that a fugitive oblate priest charged with abusing nunavut children is no longer under warrant for arrest . the statement also follows the spring sentencing of former sanikiluaq teacher johnny meeko to eight years in prison for child sexual abuse he did over a 35 - year period , and the exposure of igloolik businessman ike haulli as a child sex predator , following an order that he pay $1 . 22 million to four victims . in the fall , canada ’ s national inuit organization pledged to take action against the sexual abuse of inuit children . lightstone praised those efforts by inuit tapiriit kanatami president natan obed and said that the government of nunavut and other inuit organizations should also commit to reducing sexual violence faced by nunavut children . “ it is imperative to talk openly about child sex abuse in our communities , ” lightstone said . “ i call on the government to address the issue and to protect vulnerable children . ” lightstone also tabled 19 written questions for the department of justice and read them into the record . most ask about the gn ’ s policies for registering sex offenders , policies for notifying the public about sex offenders and how many sex offenders are convicted of sex crimes against children . the questions also ask whether registered sex offenders are required to notify the gn if they change their address , or their name , or if they travel out of their communities . the government usually replies to written questions with detailed written documents that are tabled in the house , usually at a later sitting . 
__label__no_relevant recent claims of police brutality in canada are ‘tip of the iceberg ’ for indigenous people a whirlwind of questionable police tactics against indigenous people made headlines across canada over the last two weeks , building demand from canadians to see real change in how police conduct themselves . “ this is definitely a rare moment , ” ryerson university criminology prof . tammy landau told huffpost canada . “ i have not seen such widespread discussion about transforming police as i have now . ” however , canada ’ s highest ranking police officials refused to acknowledge that systemic racism is a problem within the rcmp — a “ disheartening ” stance , said landau . rcmp deputy commissioner curtis zablocki told reporters monday , “ i don ’ t believe [racism] is systemic through policing in alberta . ” top mountie , commissioner brenda lucki , told the globe and mail on wednesday , “ i have to admit , i really struggle with the term ‘systemic racism . ’ i think that if systemic racism is meaning that racism is entrenched in our policies and procedures , i would say that we don ’ t have systemic racism . ” after widespread criticism , she walked back her statement . on may 29 , b . c . ’ s police watchdog recommended that five rcmp officers be criminally charged in relation to the death of a first nations father of three , dale culver , in 2017 . that recommendation came just days after george floyd , a black man killed by a white police officer during an arrest in minneapolis , sparking protests across north america calling out systemic racism and police brutality . then on june 3 , a video surfaced showing an rcmp officer knocking over an inuk man with the door of a police truck in nunavut . the next day , chantel moore , an indigenous mother , was shot and killed by new brunswick police during a wellness check . both of these cases are being externally reviewed . “ that ’ s the tip of the iceberg , ” said aluki kotierk , president of nunavut tunngavik inc . , the organization that represents the territory ’ s inuit . for every case of alleged police misconduct that ’ s caught on video or reported in the news , she said she hears of several more . and mistrust of the rcmp — a force created to control indigenous people — runs deep in those communities . mounties forced indigenous people , including inuit , onto reserves , and removed indigenous children from their homes to send them to residential schools . they slaughtered thousands of sled dogs in an attempt to destroy inuit ’ s way of life , and then denied it for decades . “ many of us grew up with a fear of the rcmp and what is it they ’ re going to do ? ” said kotierk . “ you walk in your community , and you see the rcmp drive by . and you take stock of what has happened . are they looking at you ? you hear a knock on the door and you think , ‘oh my goodness , who is that , is that the rcmp ? ’ ” watch : dashcam footage shows first nations chief allan adam punched during rcmp arrest . story continues below . last weekend , first nations chief allan adam told reporters he was beaten during an arrest by alberta rcmp over expired licence plates . dashcam video of the incident was released thursday , and shows an officer charging adam , tackling him to the ground and punching him in the head . alberta ’ s police watchdog launched an investigation after adam went public . “ like many people , i have serious questions about what happened , ” said prime minister justin trudeau at a news conference friday , calling for the investigation to be independent and transparent . he ’ s pushing for all police in canada to wear body cameras , and for systemic change to combat racism . “ at the same time , though , this is not an isolated incident . far too many black canadians and indigenous people do not feel safe around police . it ’ s unacceptable and as governments we have to change that . ” on friday , rcmp in new brunswick shot and killed a man from the metepenagiag mi ’ kmaq nation , identified by family and friends as rodney levi . police said they were responding to a call about a disturbed person and said levi was holding a knife . quebec ’ s police watchdog is now investigating . andrew meade / getty images an elder at a ceremony marking the conclusion of the national inquiry into missing and murdered indigenous women and girls in gatineau , que . on june 3 , 2019 . this moment is by no means canada ’ s first . in recent decades , a plethora of studies , reports and inquiries have detailed persistent and deliberate human rights violations of indigenous people by police , including the national inquiry into missing and murdered indigenous women and girls , that have resulted in indigenous people being over - policed and underprotected . indigenous people are 10 times more likely to be stopped and checked by police in edmonton than non - indigenous residents . in winnipeg , 11 out of 19 people killed by police from 2000 to 2017 were indigenous . across the country , indigenous adults represent only 3 per cent of canadians , but account for 30 per cent of the inmate population in 2020 — an all - time high , reported the office of the correctional investigator . indigenous women represent 42 per cent of female inmates . here are some of the most widely publicized incidents involving police use of force against indigenous people in canada in the past five years : 2015 a video of an rcmp officer pinning a yukon first nations man to the ground and punching him went viral on facebook . the man is heard saying “ i ’ m doing nothing . why are you hitting me ? ” while the officer held him to the ground . the officer was reassigned . cbc news uncovered an incident from 2011 that involved a manitoba rcmp officer taking an intoxicated indigenous woman out of a cell and driving her to his home to “ pursue a personal relationship . ” fellow officers at the detachment either turned a blind eye or egged him on . an internal investigation resulted in him being docked seven days pay . marta iwanek via getty images cathy stronghearted woman at a drum circle at queen ' s park in the walk for reconciliation in toronto , may 31 , 2015 . 2016 dozens of indigenous women in val d ’ or , que . reported sexual and physical abuse by provincial police officers . out of 54 complaints , one retired police officer was criminally charged , and he pleaded guilty to a single count of sexual assault . debralee chrisjohn died in police custody in london , ont . from a heart attack following a methamphetamine overdose . an ontario provincial police officer was convicted of criminal negligence causing death because he failed to call in a medical emergency despite signs she was in distress . he didn ’ t take any action until she was found unconscious in the cell . deborah campbell saw vancouver police stop and arrest her 19 - year - old son and accused him of being involved in a recent assault . when campbell tried to ask why her son was being arrested , police physically removed her from the scene and told her to go home . campbell ’ s son was later released from custody because police had no reason to hold him . the b . c . human rights tribunal would rule that the police had discriminated against campbell because she was indigenous . watch : prime minister justin trudeau vows to work with indigenous people . story continues below . 2017 human rights watch reported to the federal government dozens of cases of male police officers conducting degrading strip searches and using excessive force on indigenous women . the report also found that women who reported domestic violence to police faced skepticism and victim blaming . police would often arrest them for actions taken in self - defence , it also stated . brydon whitstone , a member of onion lake cree nation , was unarmed when a saskatchewan rcmp officer shot him . he had refused to exit his car following a police pursuit . at an inquest , a jury determined the officer should have used a taser before a gun . 2018 a video emerged of a thunder bay police officer hitting an indigenous teen in the face and forcefully pushing her onto a stretcher . the police officer was charged under the police services act with two counts of unnecessary exercise of authority . 2019 the deaths of at least nine indigenous people in thunder bay were re - opened after a police watchdog found the thunder bay police investigations were inadequate due to racial stereotyping . the washington post / getty images independent police review director gerry mcneilly determined the relationship between thunder bay , ont . police and indigenous people was broken after reviewing the force in 2019 . 
__label__no_relevant nunavut community rocked by 12 youth suicide attempts adrian wyld / canadian press the view towards cumberland sound from the hamlet of pangnirtung , nunavut is seen on aug . 20 , 2009 . pangnirtung , nunavut — everyone thought things in the nunavut community of pangnirtung were finally looking up . the hamlet , which once had one of the highest suicide rates in the territory , hadn ' t seen a single such tragedy in more than a year . a community group had drawn up a forward - looking , proactive plan to keep youth safe . people breathed easier . ' wake - up call ' then february came . " we had 12 suicide attempts by youth over a period of about two weeks , " said hamlet coun . markus wilcke . " we ' ve had a bit of a wake - up call . " the picturesque hamlet of about 1 , 400 surrounded by mountains , glaciers and ocean took a look at itself and concluded things weren ' t going so well . pangnirtung was soaked in violence , at a breaking point . police calls had increased 50 per cent since 2016 . assaults nearly tripled . a string of arsons starting last fall destroyed a half a dozen buildings , including badly needed housing and the school bus . last september , a 16 - year - old wandered through the town in the early morning , firing a gun 11 times into the air near the school , the health centre and the post office . in march , the territory ' s poison control centre took 55 calls from pangnirtung — three times as many as from any spot in nunavut . we ' ve reached the limits of the resilience and resources of the community . coun . markus wilckebooze flows in what is supposed to be a dry community . domestic violence follows . " we ' ve reached the limits of the resilience and resources of the community , " said wilcke . " there was a reaction of , ' we ' ve got to do something . ' we felt that we were in quite a desperate situation . we don ' t want to go back to where we were . " daily violenceso last week , the hamlet council issued a life - and - death plea to the territorial government for help . " violent events in pang have now become a daily occurrence , " says the letter . " bootlegging is rampant and uncontrolled . " if adequate urgency response services are not provided immediately , more and more people in pangnirtung will be physically injured , emotionally traumatized and more lives will be lost . " no one knows what touched off the events in february . pangnirtung is not without resources : a community hall and arena for organized sports , active clubs for youth , engaged elders . an adjacent national park and a fish - processing plant provide some jobs . if adequate urgency response services are not provided immediately , more and more people in pangnirtung will be physically injured , emotionally traumatized and more lives will be lost . pangnirtung councila volunteer group had just been formed to address the hamlet ' s quality of life and wellness . " it ' s really disheartening that in the middle of this , all of this started happening , " said local member of the legislature margaret nakashuk . she suspects current problems stem from so many years without social supports . no shelters or crisis servicespangnirtung — like most nunavut communities — has no addiction treatment programs , emergency shelters or crisis support services . its front - line workers , from mental - health staff to rcmp , are few and overworked . " it is very difficult when we know the resources are not available for people that need counselling or support in terms of getting help with addictions , " said nakashuk . " there ' s nothing local in our community — or any other small community in nunavut . " pang ' s letter to the territorial government asks for an emergency shelter , money for crisis counselling and victim support , quicker referrals to advanced mental - health treatment and more front - line workers . it also wants airplanes leaving for the community screened for alcohol and drugs . " we hope to find solutions that are really addressing the urgency issues , " wilcke . " a lot of that will need to be sorted out as we go along . " the territorial government has said it will send representatives to the next council meeting on may 21 . " we received the submission from the hamlet of pangnirtung , and have provided it to the cabinet committee on quality of life for their review , " said premier paul quassa in an email . " officials from justice , health , family services and local rcmp have also indicated that they will meet in pangnirtung with the hamlet council to discuss their concerns . " wilcke is hopeful that pangnirtung ' s will to help itself , with a little boost from the territory , could offer valuable lessons for other nunavut communities . " hopefully , they will find we could pilot a project that would be useful for other communities . we are definitely not unique . " previously on huffpost : 
__label__no_relevant new rcmp foot patrol launches this summer in iqaluit “ opening lines of communication will empower them to take back a bit of ownership ” by courtney edgarthis week , rcmp boots hit the dirt in iqaluit to begin a new summer foot patrol . staff - sgt . garfield elliott walked along federal rd . , up queen elizabeth , on the afternoon of wednesday , july 11 , stopping at businesses along the way and introducing himself to passersby . according to elliott , the idea behind this approach is to increase police visibility in iqaluit , improve trust in the community and help create a variation of a neighbourhood watch program in which citizens can feel more comfortable and safe contacting police when in need of help or when others are in distress or danger . elliott suggested the idea at the june 26 city council meeting , when he presented an rcmp report about crime statistics for the first half of 2018 . at that meeting , he explained that may had been “ a very difficult month for the detachment ” when it came to violent crime , including two recent homicides . he also said that foot patrols would make it easier to do preventive policing , by which officers direct people to programming and otherwise let them know where to find help . at the june meeting , elliott said that he would like to see the police showing compassion to people who are in a difficult spot rather than simply “ scooping them up ” in an arrest . “ opening lines of communication will empower them to take back a bit of ownership , ” elliott said of the city ’ s residents at the june 26 meeting . he wants the community to see the person who is behind the rcmp uniform―and for the officers to get to know the public . elliott hopes that by having at least one police officer out on the streets two or three times a week , iqaluit residents will start to feel encouraged to make a phone call when they see disputes break out or when crimes occur in a public place , or to make a call before violence has the chance to escalate . in june 2017 , staff - sgt . matco sirotic told city council that the city and territory have a “ high crime severity index ” and that the most detachment time is spent responding to calls about assault and domestic violence . it ’ s not uncommon for the iqaluit detachment to have two calls sitting in the queue while members are responding to a third , “ which sounds like a big city setting , ” sirotic said in june 2017 . this time last year , the call volume on these issues was down from previous years , but still quite high with 263 instances of assault and 34 sexual offences . however , in the second half of 2017 , the numbers of these types of crime more than doubled to 627 assaults and 71 sexual offences over just six months . the beer and wine store opened in iqaluit during this period . in april of this year , nunatsiaq news reported that elliott told city council that the total increase in crime since then had been “ marginal ” and that the rcmp was considering a review to better understand the impacts the wine and beer store may have had on crime in iqaluit . elliott said that in april he was referring to crimes in general that had been increasing marginally and was not focusing on any particular categories . he said he is not in a position to say if there is a direct link between the beer and wine store opening and the rise in calls because the store has been open for just under a year . however , he is working on a report to compare statistics on crimes over the years , to see what factors might be behind some categories of crime . “ high rates of assault and sex offences have been the case since i started working in the territory in 2010—that doesn ’ t mean we don ’ t try to change those things , ” said elliott . during the first half of 2018 , there were 374 reported cases of assault and 44 reported sexual offences , which is slightly lower than last year ’ s numbers but still higher than in previous years . the need for foot patrols—and for encouraging residents to contact police when there are warning signs of violence—followed from specific acts of spousal abuse in may . these had escalated in severity before the police were contacted . by then it was too late . “ that kind of evolved into the discussion about a neighbourhood watch , ” elliott said . it isn ’ t realistic to think that the alcohol problem in iqaluit will be solved immediately , he said . it will probably take a few years , he added . but if witnesses start to feel more comfortable contacting police at earlier stages of a crime , it might help reduce or prevent escalation . when elliott stopped at a dental office to say hello and introduce the concept of the foot patrol to the employees on wednesday , receptionist keri bugbe said it was “ very cool to see ” . just in the last few months , she had to call the rcmp twice during the day to intervene when she saw someone drunk and running through traffic . “ i ’ d seen you walking a few minutes ago just down there and i go , ‘hmm , i ’ ve never seen police doing foot patrol here . ’ maybe down south you see that sometimes , but never here , ” bugbe said . 
__label__relevant domestic violence shelters adapt as coronavirus forces families home women ’ s shelters are adjusting to ensure they can help anyone experiencing domestic violence as the covid - 19 pandemic forces families to stay home together , worsens economic hardship and upsets routines . “ we are faced with definitely a very complicated and unprecedented situation , ” said marlene ham , executive director of the ontario association of interval and transition houses , which represents more than 70 shelters in the province . “ we know home is not safe for many women and that is the location in which women are experiencing the most harassment , violence and , in certain circumstances , mortality . ” story continues below advertisementshelters have been directed to have screening plans . ham said services are still running 24 hours a day and she ’ s not aware of any shelters in ontario closing . some shelters are providing outreach over the phone or online rather than in person . “ there may be some adaptation to what we do , but certainly we are available to provide the supports that we need to provide at this time . ” ham is encouraging women who need help to reach out to their local shelter . contact information for shelters across canada can be found at safeshelter . ca . anonymous crisis lines are also available to help women formulate safety plans . anyone in immediate danger – or afraid someone else is – should call 911 . “ if women are experiencing violence in the home – reach out so that we can find some other options , ” said ham . story continues below advertisement “ we certainly don ’ t want women to feel that self - isolating at home becomes more important than your physical safety . ” jan reimer of the alberta council of women ’ s shelters said it ’ s too soon to say whether the pandemic is causing a surge in domestic violence , but she can see how it would contribute . “ we do know that domestic violence is all about power and control , so we can see the potential for abusers to use the virus to further isolate women , ” she said . that could take the form of cutting women off from friends and family or stopping them from getting medical attention . “ for friends and family to continue to reach out to women would be really important , ” she added . reimer said shelters are overwhelmingly staffed by women , many of whom have had to scramble to find child care as the virus closed schools and daycares . story continues below advertisementshelters have been leaning on each other to make sure they ’ re well supplied and provincial funding has helped , said reimer . the alberta government announced tuesday that $60 million would go toward adult homeless shelters , women ’ s emergency shelters and the family and community support services program . reimer said anyone who wants to donate to a women ’ s shelter should give money online instead of dropping off goods . calgary police chief mark neufeld said in a briefing wednesday that the force would be watching the effect that covid - 19 is having on domestic crimes . “ we appreciate that people are cooped up and , probably more important than that , a lot of people ’ s … family habits and stuff that they would normally do have been interrupted , ” he said . “ that could certainly have an impact . ” our morning update and evening update newsletters are written by globe editors , giving you a concise summary of the day ’ s most important headlines . sign up today . 
__label__relevant huron county taking proactive approach to preventing domestic abuse amid pandemic wingham , ont . - - domestic abuse is constant and persistent problem in ontario during the best of times , but covid - 19 could be making it worse . calls for domestic disturbances are up five per cent over last year from january to march , according to west region opp . there are fears that those numbers will rise , as we live through the worst of this pandemic , causing financial and relational stress for families across the province . cory leduc is a mental health counselor in huron county . “ when there ’ s sudden and unexpected changes , especially unwanted changes like covid - 19 , all those stresses add on to relationships and families and communities . there is help out there , ” says leduc . that ’ s why the huron domestic assault review team , the first committee in canada specifically designed to review domestic assault cases , is reaching out to men specifically during this time , to let the know there is help out there . michael murdoch is a former huron county crown attorney and current member of the domestic assault review team . “ a lot of these guys don ’ t want to be offending , but sometimes under the circumstances , they don ’ t have the skill set to deal with the stresses they are under . that ’ s why you reach out for help , ” he says . alcohol and drug use , also possibly increasing during these stressful times , only add fuel to the fire . “ they may be experiencing higher levels of stress and anxiety and depression and maybe using alcohol or drugs , and these are contributing factors to domestic violence , ” says d . a . r . t member , steve frayne . nearly 1700 times , west region opp officers responded to domestic assault calls the first three months of this year . that number could rise , as the covid - 19 stress mounts . “ if you ’ re a victim or you ’ re living in fear . if you ’ re that person whose struggling , you just feel like you ’ re going to lose it , please take a moment , can call us , ” says huron county opp const . jamie stanley . “ it doesn ’ t mean you ’ re weak , just because you want support , it shows strength , ” says leduc . resources can be found at www . hurondart . ca
__label__relevant no charges against ops officers in case of man diagnosed with concussion after domestic violence arrest article contentthere are no grounds to believe an ottawa police officer committed a crime in a january 2018 domestic assault arrest of a man who was diagnosed with a concussion a week later , the director of ontario ’ s civilian police watchdog concluded in a report issued tuesday . the 26 - year - old man complained on dec . 19 , 2019 that he was hurt when he was arrested in his cummings avenue apartment on a jan . 5 , 2018 . we apologize , but this video has failed to load . tap here to see other videos from our team . try refreshing your browser , or no charges against ops officers in case of man diagnosed with concussion after domestic violence arrest back to videojust after 11 p . m . that night , there were 911 calls from three neighbours in the apartment complex , according to the special investigations unit report on the incident . the first reported a man had pushed a woman into a unit who was then heard screaming , a second heard her screams and a man yelling “ how do you like that ? ” and a third heard screaming and “ thumps and bangs ” that made her fear for the woman ’ s safety . arriving officers found the apartment door partially open , went inside and found the man on top of a woman on the couch . they told him he was under arrest and tried to handcuff him but he struggled and they took him to the floor . 
__label__relevant keep it quiet , or shine a light : debate over police reporting on domestic violence almost a quarter of the violent crimes in windsor are domestic assaults , but you would never know it from the news releases that come from city police . data reported to the police services board show there were 430 family assaults in the first nine months of 2019 . that works out to 1 . 57 such cases per day . the windsor police service archives its news releases for 90 days . since late august , there have been 105 updates sent out . none have been about a domestic incident . " if we ' re publishing something , the goal is to assist that investigation , " said sgt . steve betteridge . as the public information officer for windsor police , he decides which cases will be released , in consultation with the investigating officers . betteridge said when it comes to a domestic dispute , the perpetrator is readily identifiable , and in many cases right there to be questioned and arrested . according to betteridge , police also do not need assistance from the public in providing witness statements . " a domestic violence situation is not out in the public , " said betteridge . " more often than not , they ' re in a private area , usually a private residence , so there isn ' t a number of eyewitnesses that don ' t actually know the involved people . usually , it ' s close friends , family , relatives that may be witnesses to something like that . " betteridge added the privacy rights of those involved is another consideration . the explanation from windsor police is understandable to thom rolfe , the executive director of hiatus house , a shelter that provides refuge to female victims of domestic violence . however , rolfe thinks victims would be more likely to come forward , and would have more faith in the justice system , if they heard this being openly discussed more often . " the police have an important role to play in terms of public education , " rolfe said . " they have information , and it doesn ' t necessarily get shared in a way that helps people understand how frequently this happens . we do a disservice to the public if we don ' t make them aware of the frequency of occurrences that are happening in our community . the message is that it doesn ' t happen in windsor , and we know that it does happen . " betteridge acknowledged that responding to domestic conflict is a significant element to the duties of a patrol officer in windsor . " that is something our officers do — i ' d be comfortable with using the word ' frequently . ' we do frequently attend those , " said betteridge . beyond the boundaries of windsor , several other police services are equally quiet about instances of domestic violence , with one notable exception : chatham - kent police have included details of 18 such cases in their news releases since sept . 15 . the chatham - kent police service would provide only a written statement for this story . it did not address what its policy is for deciding to include domestic assault cases in news releases . " unfortunately , it is not uncommon for our officers to respond to domestic related calls during their shift , " wrote const . renee cowell , the public information officer . " we are reminding everyone that domestic violence is not tolerated here in our community . all domestic related calls are treated seriously and thoroughly investigated . " ontario provincial police leave it up to the discretion of each local detachment whether to issue news releases on domestic assaults . " if they have a full - time media officer , if they ' re available , that timely information being shared , that ' s when a media release can be done on domestic violence incidents where charges have been laid , " explained sgt . carolle dionne , the provincial spokesperson for opp . the only blanket policy across ontario is that the name of an accused not be released to protect the identity of the victim . rolfe said it ' s a balancing act to protect privacy . for example , he is glad police services who do report on domestic violence are not giving out the address of the house or disclosing people ' s names . " but i think you can report it broadly in terms of , ' within windsor this week , these three situations occurred , ' without really divulging or giving away personal data , " said rolfe . an advocate for victims of domestic assault thinks police should be more forthcoming with information about these crimes . " the more we talk about it , the more it exposes what the problem is , and it forces people to sit in that discomfort , and that ' s what ' s important , because then you have to face the problem , " said anita prskalo , a residential counselor at hiatus house . " you have to talk about the problem . you have to acknowledge the problem . " almost a quarter of the violent crimes in windsor are domestic assaults , but you would never know it from the news releases that come from city police . the cbc ' s peter duck talks to thom rolfe and anita prskalo about the issue . 1 : 49prskalo says the women she counsels are " split " on which approach they would prefer — keeping it quiet , or letting the world know what happened to them . " there are some women that are very vocal and are very passionate about telling their story and creating awareness , " prskalo said . " then there ' s some of the population that just want to deal with what ' s going on immediately , get the the immediate support that they need and to move on from it . they really take comfort in that privacy piece . " prskalo herself was a victim of domestic violence . she was honoured during the hiatus house shine the light campaign , which happened during november — woman abuse prevention month in ontario , and domestic violence awareness month across canada . if you need help , please reach out to the services available in windsor - essex : windsor police victim assistance unit : 519 - 255 - 6700 ext . 4879victim services of windsor & essex county : 519 - 723 - 2711victim / witness assistance program : 519 - 253 - 2897
__label__relevant officer charged after allegations of domestic violence an opp officer has been charged with 3 counts of sexual assault and 3 counts of overcoming resistance by choking in what police describe as a domestic incident . the officer is a 30 year old man and the alleged incidents are said to have occurred while he was off - duty . the officer is employed in the opp ’ s east region , of which the quinte area is a small part , but police have not released which detachment he was working at . an investigation began in october of last year . the officer is currently suspended with pay and will appear in a brockville courtroom at an unknown date . 
__label__no_relevant ontario ’ s police watchdog probing family ’ s claims that toronto woman pushed off balcony ontario ’ s police watchdog says it is aware of the allegations being made online about toronto police and the circumstances surrounding a 29 - year - old woman falling to her death from an apartment building balcony . as of thursday , officials didn ’ t name the woman . however , family members and neighbours identified her to global news as regis korchinski - paquet . according to a statement issued by the special investigations unit ( siu ) , toronto police officers were called to an apartment building on high park avenue north of bloor street west at around 5 : 15 p . m . on wednesday with reports of a “ domestic incident . ” “ while officers were inside an apartment unit on the 24th floor , they observed a woman on the balcony , ” a statement issued by the siu wednesday evening said . story continues below advertisement “ a short time later , the woman fell from the balcony to the ground below . she was pronounced deceased at the scene . ” a memorial was setup at the apartment building . a “ rip . rest in power ” sign along with multiple bouquets of flowers were placed at the scene . knia singh , principal lawyer with ma ’ at legal services , read a statement on behalf of korchinski - paquet ’ s late thursday afternoon . he said korchinski - paquet , claudette beals - clayton , called 911 because her daughter was in distress over a family conflict and was made out of “ safety ” and “ concern . ” 0 : 48 regis korchinski - paquet death : lawyer calls situation ‘highly suspicious ’ regis korchinski - paquet death : lawyer calls situation ‘highly suspicious ’ singh said the two , along with her brother , met police in the hallway . he said she pleaded with officers to take korchinski - paquet to the centre for addiction and mental health for mental health support . singh said beals - clayton didn ’ t want the situation to escalate . story continues below advertisementwhen korchinski - paquet told officers she needed to use the bathroom , singh said officers followed her into the apartment unit and that when her brother tried to get her he was stopped . after a couple of minutes , singh said korchinski - paquet called out a couple of minutes later , “ mom , help . mom , help . mom , help . ” he said there was silence before an officer came out of the unit , “ knocked on the neighbour ’ s door and stated to the family that she is over at the neighbour ’ s house or in the unit below . ” singh said beals - clayton asked a few moments later if her daughter was on the ground below . “ an officer went into the unit then came back out and told her mother , ‘yes , she is on the ground , ' ” he said , calling for the preservation of surveillance video camera footage from the hallway by the siu . “ the family is distraught over the senseless loss of life and wants justice for regis . “ how can a call for assistance turn into a loss a life ? ” beals - clayton said she had to call the police before as her daughter had bad seizures because “ things tend to get a little out of hand , ” but there weren ’ t as many officers as there were on wednesday ( estimated to be between five and eight officers ) . story continues below advertisement “ i asked the police yesterday if they could take my daughter to camh and my daughter ended up dead , so i don ’ t understand , ” she said as she broke down into tears . tweet thissingh said korchinski - paquet was a talented gymnast and volunteered at her church . korchinski - paquet ’ s uncle sam renda told reporters thursday that the whole situation just does not make sense to him . “ i just want them to get to the bottom of this . i think it ’ s just something that makes zero sense to me , ” he said . “ she would never do this . she ’ s the sweetest girl in the world and it kills me inside that something like this happened . ” renda reiterated police were called because korchinski - paquet was having a seizure and her mom needed help to calm her down . “ she was sweet , she was so sweet , she would never hurt nobody , she would never hurt herself . ” tweet thishe said he does not understand how she could have gone over the balcony . “ something just doesn ’ t add up , ” renda said . a growing memorial has been setup at the site of the incident in the city ’ s west end . in an update thursday , the siu said it has begun its interviewing process . story continues below advertisementthe agency also said it is “ aware of allegations made by certain family members of the deceased and will be looking to speak to anyone with information about these allegations . ” shortly after the incident , videos began to circulate online from people who said they are korchinski - paquet ’ s family , alleging that police pushed her off the balcony . read more : siu investigating after selwyn man injured during arrest for stolen construction equipmentin a number of videos posted to social media from user @rocaworld , who says he is korchinski - paquet ’ s cousin , appears to be at the scene of the incident and alleges police “ threw my female cousin off the building . ” an orange tarp which appears to be covering a body with police tape cordoning off the area is shown behind the man in the videos . in another clip posted to twitter by user @fairyvivis , a woman who identifies herself as the korchinski - paquet ’ s mother says , “ the police killed my daughter . came into my apartment and shoved her off the balcony . ” “ my condolences go out to the family in regards to this particular incident , ” he said . “ there was some spin on it before that said that toronto police chose not to answer , which is just not the case . by law we can ’ t and that is the reason . ” story continues below advertisementsaunders said he “ wishes ” he could give information on what occurred . “ my fear is that misinformation when you don ’ t have an opportunity to speak can lead to negative consequences . so i mean i ’ ll urge the public to please wait for the facts to come out , ” he said , adding he ’ s “ anxiously ” waiting for evidence , fingerprints , statements and dna “ to tell the story , to tell the truth . ” “ i support my men and women based on the limited information that i have right now and i do hope that the public has the opportunity to hear the absolute truth because we know the concerns and we agree the case should be resolved as quick as possible so we can figure out how to move forward . ” he said police were called about an assault and that he listened to the call , noting it sounded “ rather frantic . ” saunders said officers were dispatched within 20 seconds and they arrived on scene four minutes later . “ every member of the toronto police service is 100 per cent ready to be part of the solution , to testify , to give whatever evidence is necessary and we will give it asap , ” he said . “ i do understand the emotion behind this . people want answers and i know if people had the answers , the truthful answers by the way , then i think that would change the thermostat considerably , especially in the city of toronto . ” story continues below advertisementsaunders said he hopes the independent investigation by the siu will happen “ in a speedy sense ” and that it ’ s “ fair ” and “ thorough . ” regis ’ uncle , sam renda , said that his niece would never jump on her own accord , he tears up as he said this . he wants the siu ( police watchdog ) to find out what happened between officers and regis , before she fell to her death . #regiskorchinski @globalnewsto pic . twitter . com / 1qrroxth8t — kamil karamali ( @kamilkaramali ) may 28 , 2020mayor john tory issued a statement on thursday and extended his condolences to korchinski - paquet ’ s friends and family . “ i know her family have raised questions about her death and want answers about what has happened . “ we all want and need answers when a tragic death happens in our community . ” tweet thishe said he fully supports the siu investigation and encouraged anyone with information to contact the agency . when asked if he has confidence in the siu investigation and process , singh said he is concerned based on siu - investigated incident clearance rates . he said he will be interested to see what comes of their report . story continues below advertisement “ i have faith in the justice system , but at the end of the day statistics prove and show how effective certain measures are and the siu has a responsibility to the people of ontario to uphold accountability toward police officers , ” he said , calling for the officers involved to be named and available for questioning . “ if we see statistically , there is a higher proportion of violence against people of colour . when you intersect mental health and colour , then you get an even higher percentage and that is a major concern . family of regis korchinski - paquet , who fell from 24th floor at 100 high park , say that police were called to apartment unit because regis was having a seizure due to her epilepsy . they say that police could have pushed her over the balcony . #covid19 @globalnewsto pic . twitter . com / 5k0bazi7ut — kamil karamali ( @kamilkaramali ) may 28 , 2020 “ there is no reason why this family should be standing here grieving for a young lady who had her whole life ahead of her and her mother just wanted to resolve a family dispute . ” story continues below advertisementthe siu said a post - mortem will be conducted thursday afternoon . the siu is an independent agency that investigates the conduct of officers responding to calls that have resulted in death , serious injury , or alleged sexual assault . anyone with information was asked to call the siu at 1 - 800 - 787 - 8529 . meanwhile , a gofundme crowdfunding campaign was launched to help korchinski - paquet ’ s family with funeral and legal expenses . i extend condolences to the family & friends of regis korchinski - paquet who are mourning her death . i know her family have raised questions about her death & want answers about what has happened . we all want & need answers when a tragic death happens in our community . pic . twitter . com / 3ft24a3opf — john tory ( @johntory ) may 28 , 2020her mother witnessed her own daughter ’ s murder and cp24 a news broadcasting channel was advised by police not to report it as they said it was a “ suicide ” pic . twitter . com / 9pt0w0hlrj — 𝐦𝐚𝐫𝐲𝐚𝐦𖧵 #blacklivesmatter ( @fairyvivis ) may 28 , 2020story continues below advertisement
__label__no_relevant homicide rates down across canada , but hit record high in ontario ontario had its highest homicide rate since 1991 , with 266 murdersdata from statistics canada shows murders are down across canada , except in ontariovancouver ( news 1130 ) – new data from statistics canada shows homicide rates are down across the country , except in ontario , where they reached a record high . there were 651 homicide victims in the country in 2018 , and the numbers were down almost everywhere . british columbia had 30 fewer homicides than 2017 , alberta 38 fewer and nova scotia 10 fewer . but in ontario , the numbers were up . toronto had the highest number of homicides on record for a census metropolitan area last year , with 142 in total . that ’ s a 50 per cent increase in the homicide rate over the year before . ontario had its highest homicide rate since 1991 , with 266 murders . both vancouver and b . c . as a whole had decreases in the number of murders . gang - related killings were also down , with b . c . seeing the biggest drop . while the overall trend is promising , the data showed domestic cases are up . women were three times more likely than men to be killed by a current or former partner in 2018 . 
__label__no_relevant no covid - 19 cases announced tuesday the covid - 19 outbreak at northwood ' s halifax campus is considered resolved after completing 28 days with no active casesnews releasecovid - 19 / health / wellness * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * as of today , july 7 , nova scotia has four active cases of covid - 19 . no new cases were identified on monday , july 6 . the qeii health sciences centre ' s microbiology lab completed 291 nova scotia tests on july 6 and is operating 24 - hours . there are no licensed long - term care homes in nova scotia with active cases of covid - 19 . as of monday , july 6 , the covid - 19 outbreak at northwood ' s halifax campus is considered resolved after completing 28 days with no active cases . to date , nova scotia has 55 , 428 negative test results , 1 , 065 positive covid - 19 cases , 63 deaths and four active covid - 19 cases . cases range in age from under 10 to over 90 . nine - hundred and ninety - eight cases are now resolved . two people are currently in hospital . both patients ' covid - 19 infections are considered resolved but they are being treated in hospital . cases have been identified in all parts of the province . cumulative cases by zone may change as data is updated in panorama . if you have any one of the following symptoms , visit https : / / 811 . novascotia . ca to determine if you should call 811 for further assessment : - - fever ( i . e . chills , sweats ) - - cough or worsening of a previous cough - - sore throat - - headache - - shortness of breath - - muscle aches - - sneezing - - nasal congestion / runny nose - - hoarse voice - - diarrhea - - unusual fatigue - - loss of sense of smell or taste - - red , purple or blueish lesions on the feet , toes or fingers without clear causewhen a new case of covid - 19 is confirmed , public health works to identify and test people who may have come in close contact with that person . those individuals who have been confirmed are being directed to self - isolate at home , away from the public , for 14 days . anyone who has travelled outside of atlantic canada must self - isolate for 14 days . as always , any nova scotian who develops symptoms of acute respiratory illness should limit their contact with others until they feel better . it remains important for nova scotians to strictly adhere to the public health order and directives - practise good hand washing and other hygiene steps , maintain a physical distance when and where required , and wearing a non - medical mask is strongly recommended when physical distancing is difficult . as of july 3 , interprovincial travel within nova scotia , new brunswick , prince edward island and newfoundland and labrador , without the requirement to self - isolate for permanent atlantic canadian residents , is permitted . all public health directives of each province must be followed . under nova scotia ' s health protection act order , visitors from other canadian provinces and territories must self - isolate for 14 days . other visitors from outside the atlantic provinces who have self - isolated for 14 days in another atlantic province may travel to nova scotia without self - isolating again . nova scotians can find accurate , up - to - date information , handwashing posters and fact sheets at https : / / novascotia . ca / coronavi rus . businesses and other organizations can find information to help them safely reopen at https : / / novascotia . ca / reopenin g - nova - scotia . quick facts : - - testing numbers are updated daily at https : / / novascotia . ca / coronavi rus - - a state of emergency was declared under the emergency management act on march 22 and extended to july 12additional resources : government of canada : https : / / canada . ca / coronavirusgovernment of canada information line 1 - 833 - 784 - 4397 ( toll - free ) the mental health provincial crisis line is available 24 / 7 to anyone experiencing a mental health or addictions crisis , or someone concerned about them , by calling 1 - 888 - 429 - 8167 ( toll - free ) kids help phone is available 24 / 7 by calling 1 - 800 - 668 - 6868 ( toll - free ) for help or information about domestic violence 24 / 7 , call 1 - 855 - 225 - 0220 ( toll - free ) * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
__label__no_relevant can i fly to another province ? your coronavirus travel questions answered much of canada is undergoing a reopening process after months in lockdown . with cases of the novel coronavirus declining , many are embracing the possibility of sitting on a patio or getting a haircut . but one element of the lockdown has remained stiffly in place — travel guidelines for canadians . the federal government still emphasizes that all non - essential travel outside of canada must be avoided . they ’ ve made it clear on their website that people deciding to travel during the pandemic could not only put themselves and others at risk for being infected with covid - 19 , it could also result in them becoming stranded . “ if you choose to travel despite these advisories , be aware that commercial airspace closures and movement restrictions can occur without warning and prevent your return to canada , ” they state . story continues below advertisementthere will be no additional facilitated flights organized by the government to bring home canadians who decided to fly out of the country , they state . they also warn that travellers may have difficulty accessing essential services , may face movement restrictions and quarantine , and that insurance may not cover any medical expenses . only limited consular services will be available , they add . with many curious about the possibility of flying now that activities available to canadians are being expanded across the country , global news posed some common travel questions to health experts . is it safe to book flights again ? despite reopening procedures within the country , getting on a plane is a different environment — and it ’ s not an option that ’ s recommended , said colin furness , an infection control epidemiologist and assistant professor at the university of toronto . “ i can ’ t imagine getting on a plane anytime soon , ” he said . “ and i would never advise anyone to get on a plane , anytime soon . ” furness says there are two primary reasons why he firmly does not recommend air travel right now . your risk of getting covid - 19 is proportional to how close you are to someone who is infected , and the length of time you are near that person , he said . story continues below advertisement1 : 43 airlines and travel industry ask that restrictions be loosened by summer airlines and travel industry ask that restrictions be loosened by summer “ the thing about an airplane ( is ) you ’ ve got tons of both , ” he said . sitting next to someone for hours is dangerous and passengers could be asymptomatic , he said . this means even if passengers are screened for symptoms , you are still at risk of infection . furness also questions whether airlines can deliver what they are promising in terms of safety standards . airlines are a business , he says , wondering how they can operate at a loss by significantly reducing the number of people on planes . flights have been cut or suspended by most airlines , including canadian companies like porter airlines , which now says they will resume operations on july 29 — one month after they said they ’ d initially start flying again . when they do resume , their policies will reflect public health recommendations , they state . story continues below advertisementbut some airlines that are operating have implemented detailed safety standards . air canada announced their cleancare+ program last month , which includes a temperature check and health screening before the flight , all customers are required to wear masks and surfaces are cleaned with a “ hospital grade ” disinfectant , they state on their website . from may 15 to june 30 they are also blocking every adjacent seat in the economy cabin . zahid butt , an assistant professor at the university of waterloo who specializes in infectious disease epidemiology , says it ’ s still important to avoid all non - essential travel , and if you have to travel , you need to follow public health guidelines at the airport which includes using hand sanitizer , washing hands and practising physical distancing . “ when you ’ re inside the aircraft , try to have at least a face mask so that your droplets don ’ t spread to another person , ” he said . it ’ s likely mandatory on these flights , he added . even with the middle seat empty , the distance from the next person in your row , as well as the person in front of or behind you , is less than six feet , he said . what should i do about refunds or cancellations ? major canadian airlines are offering different options when it comes to refunds and cancellations . story continues below advertisementair transat flights are suspended until july 23 and they state on their website that travel credits will be granted automatically for 24 months after customers ’ flights were cancelled . airlines like westjet have also suspended international travel routes until june 25 and they are also offering a two - year travel credit for any cancelled flights or vacation packages . air canada introduced expanded booking offerings at the end of may following public criticism for providing a travel credit to customers for cancelled flights , rather than a refund , global news reported . until june 30 , passengers can make a one - time change with no fees to all new or existing bookings between march 1 , 2020 , until june 20 , 2021 . they state on their website that customers who purchased a refundable ticket will be able to get a refund , but those with non - refundable tickets will only be eligible for a credit . the airline still plans to fly to 100 destinations this summer , including the u . s . , europe , the caribbean , asia and south america . 2 : 22 coronavirus : what you need to know for summer travel in canada coronavirus : what you need to know for summer travel in canadaas for sunwing , the airline has suspended all southbound flights until june 25 . travel credits valid until june 2022 are available for those who booked flights or vacation packages between march 17 and june 25 . story continues below advertisementwhat do i need to know about flexible bookings ? full refunds are difficult to find right now and most airlines are providing travel credits , global news reported previously . but these travel credits could come at financial risk for passengers , said gábor lukács , an air passenger rights advocate . customers need to be wary of fare increases when rebooking , he told global news in a previous report . airlines are waiving rebooking fees but customers are being left to cover cost differences out of pocket , if the fares have increased , he said . “ you will not get a flight to new york city in september for the price you paid in february , ” lukács said via email . to raise costs of flights for passengers rebooking would be a violation of canada ’ s air passenger protection regulations if their flights were cancelled by the airline . if the airline files for insolvency , it ’ s currently unclear what would happen to customer ’ s travel vouchers , said lukács . lukács says customers should be getting refunds instead of vouchers , even if they bought a non - refundable ticket . story continues below advertisementprime minister justin trudeau has mentioned that canadians are concerned about being given travel credits that ultimately they may not want to use , even within the next two years . “ i think we need to have some very careful discussions with airlines , with the air travel sector and , indeed , with canadians … to try and figure out a way forward where we can ensure that canadians are treated fairly and our airline industry remains there for when our economy picks up again , ” the prime minister said last month . “ we will work with airlines and with canadians who are concerned with finding solutions . ” when can i cross the u . s . border ? the government ’ s official travel advice for heading to the u . s . is that all non - essential travel — to any country — needs to be avoided . the canada - u . s . land border remains closed for non - essential travellers . however , canadians can technically still fly to the u . s . as long as they haven ’ t recently been to china , brazil , the european schengen area ( which includes finland , germany and spain , among 26 countries ) , the united kingdom or ireland . while canadians are not required to self - isolate for 14 days when they enter the u . s . , they will have to isolate when they return home to canada . story continues below advertisementthe u . s . has more than two million confirmed cases of covid - 19 , while canada is nearing 100 , 000 cases . some states are seeing surges following reopening . travel insurance may be difficult to acquire as the official government recommendation is no non - essential travel , to any country , according to a previous global news report . should i be travelling to other provinces ? with international travel not being an option for most canadians , some wonder if they should take a short flight or a car ride to another province for vacation . several provinces and territories have already implemented travel restrictions for those who are not residents of that region . furness said problems can arise when travel is done between provinces and an individual doesn ’ t isolate . b . c . still recommends that all non - essential travel beyond the b . c . - alberta border be avoided . the province ’ s borders to the yukon and northwest territories are also restricted to essential travel only and some highways are closed . alberta , saskatchewan and ontario do not have provincial travel bans . all three provinces , however , are advising against non - essential travel . quebec has begun to loosen some travel restrictions that were implemented earlier in the pandemic . in april , checkpoints were created to bar travellers from too much mobility if they weren ’ t travelling for essential reasons . by may , most of quebec has opened back up again but some areas are still restricted including the cree territory of james bay . story continues below advertisement1 : 49 northern new brunswick cross - border economy strained over quebec travel restrictions northern new brunswick cross - border economy strained over quebec travel restrictionssome provinces are imposing a mandatory 14 - day quarantine for travellers coming from other parts of canada . nova scotia and manitoba have both implemented these orders . and even stricter regulations are in place in newfoundland and labrador , prince edward island and new brunswick . in newfoundland and labrador , only residents of the province can enter along with those who have extenuating circumstances . new brunswick is prohibiting all non - essential travel and the province is screening all who enter and enforcing a mandatory 14 - day quarantine . prince edward island is also barring all non - essential travel and anyone attempting to enter the province for non - essential reasons can be turned away , or be told to leave immediately if they are found to be there for the wrong reasons . story continues below advertisementnew brunswick has tied a new swath of cases to a doctor they claimed traveled to quebec and did not isolate upon return to the province . however , that doctor disputes their claims and is seeking an apology from new brunswick , saying everyone he initially came into contact with has tested negative for the virus . in terms of safety in general , furness said the safety measures in place for summer are allowing canadians to engage in “ irresponsible ” behaviour , including travelling between provinces . that will change in the fall when a second wave emerges , he said . “ what brakes can we put on this and really prime people ’ s expectations ? we may really , really need to stop travel very suddenly in october , ” he said . it should be made clear that while some inter - provincial travel may be allowed now in some cases , there could be a serious uptick in cases in the fall and serious restrictions may need to be implemented again , he said . “ if we have to stop some things from happening , travel is very high on my list , ” he said . “ i don ’ t want to close schools so people can go on vacation . ” story continues below advertisementquestions about covid - 19 ? here are some things you need to know : symptoms can include fever , cough and difficulty breathing — very similar to a cold or flu . some people can develop a more severe illness . people most at risk of this include older adults and people with severe chronic medical conditions like heart , lung or kidney disease . if you develop symptoms , contact public health authorities . to prevent the virus from spreading , experts recommend frequent handwashing and coughing into your sleeve . they also recommend minimizing contact with others , staying home as much as possible and maintaining a distance of two metres from other people if you go out . in situations where you can ’ t keep a safe distance from others , public health officials recommend the use of a non - medical face mask or covering to prevent spreading the respiratory droplets that can carry the virus . for full covid - 19 coverage from global news , click here . 
__label__no_relevant what to do with all the stuff marie kondo convinced you to give up now that you ' ve tidied up with marie kondo ' s new netflix series , what do you do with all of your excess stuff ? marie kondo is an organizing guru who has inspired islanders through her new series and her books to eliminate clutter from their homes — things that don ' t " spark joy " have to go . cbc asked islanders via facebook what their favourite places are to unload their treasures and why — here they are , in no particular order . 1 . habitat for humanityhabitat for humanity on p . e . i . runs a restore which takes donations and re - sells gently - used appliances , furniture and housewares as well as building supplies including lumber , paint and tiles and more . they also accept artwork , books and dvds , but not clothing . donations of building supplies , furniture in good repair , books and more are welcome at the habitat for humanity restore in charlottetown . ( katerina georgieva / cbc ) " last year we diverted over 619 , 000 pounds [313 , 432 kilograms] of waste from landfills at our store , " said habitat ' s ceo aaron brown . all profits from the restore go to cover overhead for the organization like salaries for its staff , he said . " because of this , every dollar we bring in through fundraising and receive in homeowner mortgage payments goes directly toward building homes , " brown said . the store accepts donations monday to saturday 9 a . m . to 5 p . m . they also offer a free pick - up service tuesday through saturday . find them on facebook or phone ( 902 ) 368 - 7539 . 2 . mission thrift storethe mission thrift store , previously bibles for missions , is on allen street in charlottetown where kent building supplies used to be . " i donate to mts because all of the proceeds are for no - profit , " commented gloria wooldridge on facebook . it ' s a large , department - style resale shop that takes almost everything except televisions , encyclopedias and baby equipment . the store is a volunteer - driven christian organization that operates 50 thrift stores across canada . all the donations made on p . e . i . stay at the store . the revenue generated by the stores goes to the joint ministry of bfm foundation canada and bible league canada to spread the " word of god . " some of it goes to other christian organizations on p . e . i . such as camp seggie , spokesperson marg shroder said . 3 . value villagevalue village is arguably the most popular thrift store on p . e . i . and is also a large department - style store . many of the donations to value village are sent overseas for resale in countries like ghana , india , or bolivia . ( cbc news ) " can ' t wait to hit up value village in the coming weeks , " said beth bruce of souris . " donate to vv ' s , because i get the coupon ( and i also shop there ) , " said nicole bellefleur of charlottetown . when you donate , value village will punch a rewards card for up to 30 per cent off your next purchase . it is a for - profit company that partners with community non - profits such as the canadian diabetes association and big brothers / big sisters . value village agrees to take the contents of the charities ' bins and pay them a flat fee based on the weight of the load . that fee is negotiated on a case - by - case basis , and is not publicly available . as cbc discovered last year , 80 to 90 per cent of donated clothing isn ' t being resold in canada . it ' s sold in other countries , sold as rags , or reprocessed into new goods , or sent to a landfill according to the for - profit secondary materials and recycled textiles association . some of the goods donated on p . e . i . end up at different value village locations or are shipped overseas . 4 . first impressionsfirst impressions is a p . e . i . non - profit that provides free professional clothing and accessories to women in need . clients at first impressions come in for a private appointment and take the clothing they need at no charge . the public is also welcome to shop there . ( first impressions / facebook ) " after marie kondo - ing last summer , i donated six large blue bags of clothing , accessories and shoes to first impressions , " said dominique chouinard of charlottetown . " we help women who are leaving domestic violence , fire victims , transitioning from the mental - health system etc . , " said owner karrie macdougall . first impressions is open to the public to shop — everything is priced at $5 . proceeds are split 50 - 50 between mental health and addictions and upkeep at the store as well as purchasing some things for clients that they don ' t have in stock . it also takes mens ' clothing and donates them to men in need at the q . e . h . and mental health and addictions clients . it operates from the hillsborough hospital at 115 deacon grove road in charlottetown . hours are listed on its facebook page . 5 . gifts from the heart , inc . gifts from the heart inc . offers donations to low - income islanders and " people going through a rough patch , " its facebook page says . anne putnam said she enjoys donating to this organization since " no money changes hands and she makes sure everything goes to families in need . " it is organized by betty begg - brooks of charlottetown , a retired nurse who gathers the food , clothing , furniture , household goods , toys and personal items at her home . along with local charity santa ' s angels , begg is looking to find a facility to open a free thrift shop for those in need . 6 . free storethe free store in summerside provides free clothes for those in need as well as housewares , baby stuff , toiletries and books . it was started by belinda woods in 2016 and is volunteer - run . the free store in summerside provides clothing and housewares for those in need , for free . ( free store / facebook ) the store is at 109 water street , at the corner of water and king , and is open every tuesday from 4 : 30 to 6 : 30 p . m . for donations . it is open to the public on the second and fourth saturdays of each month from 1 to 4 p . m . plus the third tuesday of each month from 6 : 30 to 8 p . m . people are promised a " non - judgemental environment " and are welcome to take what they need , the shop ' s facebook page says . 7 . anderson housefamily violence prevention services runs anderson house shelter for women and children in charlottetown , which is frequently in need of donations . the organization updates its list of needs monthly on it website . to donate , contact them via facebook , call ( 902 ) 894 - 3354 or email admin@fvps . ca to co - ordinate . " the majority of the items we usually need are food and supplies so i ' m not sure if this will work very well with decluttering , but you never know ! " said lindsay merrill . the organization also occasionally posts calls for help on its facebook page . 8 . salvation armythe salvation army thrift store in summerside , p . e . i . , at 79 all weather highway accepts donations and resells items . clothing for anyone in the family can be found at cheap prices at the salvation army or value village . ( summerside salvation army thrift store / facebook ) hours are 9 to 4 : 45 p . m . monday through saturday , and donations can be dropped off after - hours on their front deck says manager anna macdonald — just make sure boxes and bags are sealed in case it snows . excess items and items that haven ' t sold in the store are packaged up and sent to a central processing station in dieppe , n . b . , and may be disbursed to other salvation army stores or sold on for further recycling . clothing items in the store are priced from $2 to $6 . other items like home decor may have higher prices — that money goes to support salvation army programs on p . e . i . like a daily free lunch , macdonald said . " it ' s a store for everybody and designed so anybody who walks in the door can find something , " said macdonald . the salvation army is a christian faith - based organization — bibles are available for free at the thrift shop , and christian music plays in the background . 9 . blooming housep . e . i . ' s new shelter for women , blooming house in charlottetown , is looking for donations of furniture including beds , mattresses , lamps , sofas and more . charlottetown ' s new shelter for women , blooming house , is seeking donations of furniture . ( laura meader / cbc ) find them on facebook where you can fill out a form telling them what you have . you will need to drop off in charlottetown . " i still have another round of downsizing to go , so will look here ! " commented mathieu arsenault . 10 . nearly newthis resale store on main street in montague , p . e . i . , raises money for the local kings county memorial hospital . " although it ' s a little out of the way , we send our clothing and housewares donations to nearly new in montague — proceeds go to the hospital ( love that it ' s non - denominational , not - for - profit ) , " submits shayna johnston of charlottetown . the store is open tuesday through saturday 10 a . m . to 5 p . m . 11 . charity yard salesyou could also hold on to your things and donate them to the annual mikinduri children of hope giant indoor yard sale , which raises money to help reduce poverty in kenya . it ' s held at the beginnning of may each year . the annual mikinduri children of hope indoor yard sale looks for donations in the days leading up to the sale every may . ( mikinduri children of hope / facebook ) there ' s also the pinch penny fair held near the end of april every year at the confederation centre of the arts . it sells gently - used household goods , plants and books to raise money for art education and projects at the centre . and the annual coats for kids drive in early november every year wants donations of warm winter wear for all ages . if you have some things that you think have value , you could also try selling them . " i sell any really special mint condition items and then i ask my friends if they need anything for themselves or children , then i donate , " commented denise dawn macleod . 12 . sell onlinesell online on kijiji or some of the many facebook buy / sell sites just for p . e . i . there are lots of great tips for sellers and buyers in this recent cbc story . 13 . pawn / antique shopssome resale shops will give you a bit of cash for your treasures , or consign them — put them for sale in their shops for a cut of the selling price . second time around thrift shop in souris buys and sells just about everything . ( second time around / facebook ) most wanted in charlottetown is a popular spot for everything from electronics to jewelry to musical instruments . sawyer & co . on great george street in charlottetown buys brand - name clothing and accessories . coulson ' s new & used furniture on water street in summerside buys antiques and local artwork . second time around in the main street mall in souris buys furniture , housewares , books and clothing and will also take donations . 14 . have a yard saleyou could have a garage sale indoors in the winter , or if you have space to hang on to your items , wait until spring and have a yard sale . you could encourage others in your building or neighbourhood to hold sales on the same day to increase traffic . 15 . 70 - mile yard salethe annual weekend - long 70 - mile yard sale in p . e . i . at the end of every september is a great way to unload lots of stuff quickly . people are looking for just about everything too , from furniture to jewelry to collectibles . join a public site like the one at wood islands or team up with someone you know along the sale route . more info on its facebook page . 16 . flea marketthere ' s a flea market in charlottetown every sunday from 9 a . m . to 2 p . m . at the sherwood business centre . rent a table at the sunday flea market on st . peters road to sell some of your excess stuff . ( nicole williams / cbc ) rent a table for $15 . find them on facebook or call ( 902 ) 368 - 8161 . every few months a group of avid thrifters on p . e . i . also holds a thriftspotting pop - up flea market where vintage and collectible goods are popular — keep an eye out for these on facebook if you ' re interested in renting a table . more p . e . i . news
__label__no_relevant covid - 19 pandemic is driving new west crime numbers down the covid - 19 pandemic is driving crime rates down in new westminster – but not across the board . the new westminster police department noted that new crime trends have emerged in the city since covid - 19 - related public health orders were put in place by the province five weeks ago . since then , the local department has seen a “ significant reduction ” in most major crime categories , as well as residential break - and - enters , frauds and auto theft , according to a press release . article continues below “ these statistics reflect how we ’ re living right now , ” said acting chief const . dave jansen in the release . “ this reduction in crime could be attributed to physical distancing , people spending more time at home , and the numerous different public health orders . ” the news , however , is somewhat mixed . while there has been a 54% reduction in residential break - and - enters , there ’ s been an 8% increase in business break - and - enters . at the same time , however , property crime has gone down by 19% . the press release notes that , thanks to the hard work of nwpd officers , numerous arrests have been made in connection to property crime across the city in the past several weeks . a number of those arrests were made at vacant properties and construction sites in the city . “ while the overall reduction of many kinds of crime is positive , there are some statistics that are causing us concern , ” jansen said . “ these include a drop in domestic violence reports . our concern with self - isolation is that it may keep victims of domestic violence from reaching out for help ; they may be having problems notifying us . ” the new westminster police department encourages victims of domestic violence to reach out to the police at 604 - 529 - 2525 for support or to call 911 in emergencies , and for neighbours to call 911 if they hear what they suspect is a domestic assault in progress . another area of note is theft from cars ; the nwpd has seen a surge in theft from autos of 38% . everyone is reminded to park in well - lit areas , remove all valuables from their vehicles and to secure all doors and windows . if you are a victim of theft from auto , this can be reported to the nwpd online at www . nwpolice . org . 
__label__no_relevant trailer wizards joins tip group article content continued “ after the recent acquisition of pema in europe , the acquisition of trailer wizards is another key milestone in the growth path of tip , ” said bob fast , president and ceo of tip trailer services . “ by joining the teams of trailer wizards and train trailer rentals , we can provide the best in flexible commercial trailer fleet solutions and pursue growth opportunities for the combined businesses . we intend to invest to develop our longstanding customer relationships with world - class transport , logistics , and retail customers in canada . ” tip ’ s canadian division will have a combined fleet of over 33 , 000 trailers , reefers , chassis and flatbed or drop - deck configurations . the combined business will employ over 500 people , including approximately 300 mechanics , throughout almost 30 locations in canada from prince edward island to british columbia . the management of the combined business is working together on an integration plan to allow a smooth transition . unless communicated otherwise , existing contracts , services , terms and conditions and processes will remain in place at each of the businesses . about tip trailer servicesfounded in 1968 , tip trailer services is an equipment service provider specializing in trailer leasing , rental , maintenance and repair , as well as other value - added services to transportation and logistics customers across europe and canada . the company has one of the largest and most diverse trailer rental and leasing fleets with over 120 , 000 units . headquartered in amsterdam , tip has over 2 , 700 employees and services its customers from 120 locations in 18 countries across europe and canada . for more information , please visit : https : / / www . tipeurope . com
__label__no_relevant charlottetown statue of sir john a . macdonald covered in red paint charlottetown — a statue of sir john a . macdonald in prince edward island was doused in red paint friday , the latest in a series of defaced sculptures and monuments depicting historical figures across canada with ties to racist elements of canada ' s past . charlottetown police services is now investigating the incident , which occurred sometime overnight friday . charlottetown mayor philip brown denounced it as an act of vandalism while also acknowledging an ongoing debate brewing within the city about whether the statue should be removed . " this is a public piece of art and i know it ' s representing sir john a . macdonald , but it ' s public property , " brown said . he said his office has been inundated with emails and messages discussing the merits of removing the statue ever since a crowd of thousands marched in an anti - black racism protest in charlottetown earlier this month . macdonald ' s role in the creation of residential schools , where thousands of indigenous children were forcibly placed , abused and even died — is sparking calls for the sculpture in the p . e . i . capital to be removed . in 2018 , victoria city council removed a statue of macdonald that stood outside city hall , and has had multiple public meetings since to discuss what to do with the statue , which for now remains in storage . a charlottetown city committee is now studying the issue to determine if it should go or , if it does stay , whether more information could be added to a plaque to include details about the macdonald government ' s controversial relationship with indigenous peoples . brown says he favours this route , citing former truth and reconciliation commission chairman murray sinclair , who told the canadian press in 2017 tearing down tributes to historical figures would be " counterproductive " to reconciliation efforts between indigenous and non - indigenous people . " i ' m an educator , i taught for 30 years and i believe education is power . and when you empower people with knowledge then you make a better society for it , " brown said . statues and monuments of historical figures across the world are being vandalized and torn down in the wake of protests against anti - black and anti - indigenous racism , and similar incidents in canada are mounting . earlier this week in vancouver , a statue of john deighton , known as " gassy jack , " was also doused with red paint . deighton was a 19th - century bar owner for whom the vancouver neighbourhood of gastown was named . his marriage to a 12 - year - old squamish girl has led to calls for the statue ' s removal . prime minister justin trudeau said monday he acknowledges that canada has made many mistakes in the past and that those mistakes continue today with entrenched racism in policing agencies and public institutions . he promised to take " concrete measures " to improve these systems but steered clear of saying what specific statues or monuments should be taken down . " obviously , there are many conversations going on around names of sports teams , around statues , around the way we commemorate historical figures and those conversations are going to be important and need to continue , " he said . " we encourage those conversations to be had . " in 2017 , trudeau renamed the former langevin block building , which sits across from parliament hill and houses the prime minister ' s office , arguing at the time that keeping the name of sir hector - louis langevin — who was associated with the residential school system — on the building clashed with his government ’ s vision . this report by the canadian press was first published on june 19 , 2020 . teresa wright , the canadian pressnote to readers : this is a corrected story . a previous version had incorrect capitalization in sir john . a . macdonald ' s surname . 
__label__no_relevant quebec must explain which covid - 19 patients get priority before second wave : disability advocates montreal - - now that there ’ s a decrease—or perhaps just a lull—in coronavirus cases in quebec , advocates for people with disabilities want the province to release a document it has so far refused to make public : its triage protocol for covid - 19 patients . this set of rules lays out how the provincial health - care system will decide which coronavirus patients will take priority if resources become scarce . it will give doctors a guide , for example , in the event that they have just one lifesaving ventilator available but two patients who need it . the rules “ will kick in if we get to a situation where the pandemic is out of control , ” says vardit ravitsky , a bioethicist and professor at the université de montreal . it is unavoidable that there must be some set of guidelines like this , since pandemics can easily overwhelm medical resources . however , the details of what ’ s in the protocol for each province or state are not a given—and people like ravitsky would like to know what ’ s in quebec ’ s , ideally before any potential second wave of the virus arrives . the goal in these triage protocols is to maximize the lives saved . a patient ’ s health would be the first deciding factor—patients who are struggling more from the virus , with less chance of fighting it off , would be lower priority than someone with a better chance of being saved . “ people with a lower chance of survival will be on a lower priority , ” says ravitsky . but if their chances of survival are equal , there are other sets of factors that can then be weighed . one of the criteria , ravitsky says , is that a “ severe cognitive impairment due to progressive illness ” can be taken into account , such as advanced alzheimer ’ s . however , for doctors in a moment of crisis , it could be that type of logic “ opens the door ” to de - prioritizing someone with another cognitive disability , like from childhood down syndrome or “ very severe autism , ” she says . ravitsky says that when quebec ’ s protocols were developed , there were a few patient advocates involved but no one speaking for people with disabilities . she said she understands why the process was rushed at first , but quebec now has a bit of breathing room to revisit it . “ in a situation of crisis , you can ’ t have ideal conditions and have a broad public consultation , ” she said . but “ now that we have it and we ’ re not using it , we have the time to consult the public . ” so far , people asking to see the protocol have been told to file an access to information request , a formal process that can take months to produce a document . ravitsky said that approach diminishes public trust . “ now that the protocol exists , there is no reason to hide it from the public . it needs to be communicated , it needs to be presented by the government in a transparent way , ” she said . “ if we ’ re going to ask the public to stay home , social distance , wear a mask…we must maintain public trust . ” 
__label__relevant let ’ s call the nova scotia mass shooting what it is : white male terrorism while the mainstream media has been quick to situate the deadly recent events that unfolded in nova scotia within the context of canadian mass murders , no one seems to be drawing attention to the most prominent link connecting canadian mass killings : all of the accused perpetrators have been men , and most of them have been white . white men were responsible for or currently face charges for the mass murders at the école polytechnique in 1989 , mayerthorpe in 2005 , moncton in 2014 , calgary in 2014 , québec city in 2017 , toronto in 2018 ( a van attack ) and fredericton in 2019 . those in vernon , b . c . , in 1996 , edmonton in 2014 , and toronto in 2018 ( the shooting in the city ’ s greektown neighbourhood ) were perpetrated by racialized men . given this explicitly gendered pattern of perpetration , why don ’ t we talk about these mass murders as male terrorism ? when speaking about the mass murder during his regular covid - 19 update on april 19 , prime minister justin trudeau referred to the violence in nova scotia as “ senseless ” and proclaimed that “ violence of any kind has no place in canada . ” the canadian press / andrew vaughanas a survivor of multiple forms of violence with more than 20 years of researching and responding to gender - based violence in my academic and professional career , i beg to differ . male - perpetrated violence underpins canadian society and is by no means “ senseless ” — instead , it serves to reinforce patriarchy and male social domination . the mass shooting in nova scotia reportedly began with domestic abuse incident against a woman . as long as we are unwilling to name , acknowledge and address male violence , the lives and well - being of people in canada , especially women and children , are at risk . the normalization of male violenceregardless of specific motive , the fact that canadian mass murders have been exclusively committed by men makes this violence explicitly gendered . this is male violence and , as such , must be linked to other forms of male violence and understood as gender - based violence . while the term gender - based violence primarily implies violence on the basis of gender identity , gender presentation or perceived gender , it also encompasses patriarchy and violence perpetrated by men . in other words , regardless of specific motive , we need to consider these mass murders in relation to patriarchy and male social domination in canada . the canadian press / ryan remiorzpatriarchy establishes what we refer to as “ hegemonic masculinity ” — the dominant social definition of what it means to be male , and violence is an essential part of this . in fact , violence plays a fundamental role in securing male social dominance : because patriarchal domination is predicated on unfounded claims to male supremacy , violence serves to reinforce this illegitimate claim to social supremacy by force . to be a dominant socially acceptable man , then , involves the use of violence and aggression and , from birth , males are socialized into this violent hegemonic masculinity . for example , in addition to action figures of superheroes who regularly use violence to “ save ” the world , my six - year - old son received two toy guns for christmas last year . patriarchy normalizes this violence by ignoring , exonerating and enshrining the right of men to commit violence . think of all the times you ’ ve heard someone dismiss male violence with the phrase “ boys will be boys . ” this phrase is a tacit acceptance of male violence and the right of men to be violent . the phrasing is frequently echoed in court cases of young men who have committed sexual assault or murder or both . the perpetrators are portrayed as good boys who simply took things too far . courts , for their part , are notoriously lenient on male perpetrators of violence , reinforcing the right of men to do violence . mass murder is white male terrorismin addition to being an explicitly gendered crime , mass murder in canada is also explicitly racialized . the perpetrators are overwhelming white males and we must consider how race , and particularly whiteness and white privilege , operate here . while hegemonic masculinity and the right to use violence is open to all males , race and racism shape that tendency . to establish white male social supremacy , racist discourses portray all racialized males as inherently violent and a perceived threat , justifying white male violence . this principle is exemplified in policing and the greater likelihood of bipoc males to be killed by police . while violence is used to pathologize racialized males and justify social domination and violence perpetrated against them , the violence of white males is justified , excused and erased . so why are white men more likely to commit mass murder ? american masculinities scholar michael kimmel suggests that social justice efforts aimed at dismantling the social hierarchies that white men sit atop are creating “ angry white men ” with “ aggrieved entitlement . ” he says : “ if you feel entitled and you have not got what you expected , that is a recipe for humiliation . ” the canadian press / shaney komulainenas hegemonic masculinity makes crystal clear , if your existence is being threatened you have the right — indeed , in the minds of some mass killers , the responsibility — to use violence and set things right . addressing mass murder means taking a hard look at white masculinity and the normalization of violence . it requires that we refuse to dismiss mass murderers as mentally defective or a few “ bad apples . ” instead , we must understand that the entire system of white masculinity is rotten . because until we do , aggrieved white men will continue to commit mass murder and we will all continue to pay the price . 
__label__relevant in wake of mylène laliberté ' s death , what can be done about domestic violence ? last friday afternoon , mylène laliberté — by all accounts a generous , fun - loving young woman — posted on facebook : " who ' s doing what tonight ? " only five hours later , the 24 - year - old was found dead . mylène laliberté , 24 , was found dead on friday in a residence in saint - lin - laurentides . ( mylène laliberté / facebook ) her ex - boyfriend , maxime aubin , 21 , has been charged with first - degree murder . her slaying has shaken her hometown of saint - lin - laurentides , 60 kilometres north of montreal , and renewed questions about what can be done to address the persistent problem of domestic violence . despite research suggesting an overall decline in recent years , half of all women in canada aged 16 or older have experienced at least one incident of physical or sexual violence , according to statistics compiled by the canadian women ' s foundation . approximately every six days , a woman in canada is killed by her intimate partner , the organization says . jealous boyfriendin laliberté ' s case , friends say she had a jealous ex - boyfriend who harassed her after they broke up . there ' s a lot of denial , there ' s a lot of love for the partner , there ' s a lot of fear that ' s associated with leaving . - melpa kamateros , shield of athena " she was having a hard time with her ex . he wanted to be in touch with her again , " her friend gabrielle lafortune told cbc news . on monday , aubin was charged from his hospital bed with first - degree murder and criminal harassment in connection with laliberté ' s death . maxime aubin was charged with first - degree murder and criminal harassment . ( radio - canada ) aubin suffered serious injuries the night laliberté was killed . they were self - inflicted wounds after he tried to kill himself , according to radio - canada . along with murder , the crown accused aubin of harassing the victim between may 15 , 2016 and jan . 13 , 2017 . aubin ' s lawyer said he is likely to be released from hospital tuesday . he is expected to undergo a psychiatric evaluation . melpa kamateros is the executive director of shield of athena , a montreal non - profit agency that provides emergency shelter and professional services to women and children who are victims of family violence . she spoke to daybreak host mike finnerty on tuesday . here is an edited excerpt of that conversation . how common is domestic violence ? we see close to 1 , 000 cases every year . behind every fourth house , there is conjugal violence . it ' s very , very common . it has been estimated that only 30 per cent of cases are reported . that means 70 per cent of the cases are never reported . statistically speaking , the most difficult , the most dangerous , the most volatile time in a relationship where conjugal violence has existed is upon the point of rupture . younger and younger women are coming out and saying that they are victims of conjugal violence . what are the obstacles to women coming forward ? even with the women that do report and come to our offices for professional assistance , there is a resistance to say that you ' re a victim . there ' s a lot of denial , there ' s a lot of love for the partner , there ' s a lot of fear that ' s associated with leaving . there ' s a lot of guilt that ' s associated with leaving your children . economic issues may also play a factor . there are huge reasons for women not to report the cases to the police , and that ' s also something that ' s textbook . what are the warning signs ? first of all , it can be very difficult for a woman to recognize they are in an abusive situation . but some of the red flags you might hear are , they say , " oh , they are so jealous of me , they are so possessive of me , and yesterday , he told me not to wear that skirt . " that for me is an immediate indicator that something is happening that should not be happening . also , if you see that somebody is not making the calls to you that is a lifelong buddy of yours : what ' s happening in their lives ? why the isolation ? is this something that they want or is being imposed on them ? what can be done ? if they ' re scared for themselves and the safety of their children , they call 911 or go to a shelter . if they want to find out if their relationship is an abusive one , call shelters with external services and speak with someone regarding their relationship . 
__label__relevant harvard ' s international students are begging the school to let them come to campus in the fall , citing fears of being stuck in unstable home environments if they ' re forced to leave the us last week , ice released guidance stating that international students would not be allowed back into the us in the fall unless they were taking in - person classes at their university . this poses a problem for harvard ' s international students , as the school recently said classes in the fall would be entirely remote . students told business insider that these regulations pose serious problems for them , including the difficulty of keeping up with online courses while in a different time zone and with poor internet connection . some also face unsafe or unaccommodating home situations , making it even harder for them to find a proper place to keep up with their studies . home situations , making it even harder for them to find a proper place to keep up with their studies . rachael dane , a spokesperson for harvard , told business insider that " the overwhelming reason to deliver all instruction remotely is harvard ' s commitment to protecting the academic enterprise and preserving academic continuity for all of our students . " visit business insider ' s homepage for more stories . guillaume bouchard , a rising sophomore at harvard university , first experienced homelessness at age 15 . the quebec native said that at that time , his single parent got a job and signed a lease on a one - bedroom apartment in another city without telling him , leaving him to fend for himself . " i ' ve moved 13 times in my life , " he said , adding that half of those times came in the two years after his single parent left and before he moved to the us for school . " i come from an entirely francophone family and community , and i wanted to study english and come to america . " guillaume bouchard in annenberg , harvard ' s freshman dining hall . guillaume bouchardin fact , part of bouchard ' s motivation to apply to harvard was the four years of guaranteed room and board that the university provides to all its undergraduates . now it looks like that could be ripped away . " i do not have a home to go back to in canada , " he said . but bouchard and harvard ' s other international students would be deported under an official new government policy . last week , ice released " guidance " stipulating that international students who entered the country on f - 1 or m - 1 visas would not be allowed back into the country in the fall unless they were taking in - person classes at their university . f - 1 visas allow people to enter the us as a student at a four - year college or graduate degree program and remain legally until they graduate ; m - 1s do the same , but for technical or vocational schools . these students are now waiting to see what us courts decide , as harvard is one of hundreds of schools — along with more than a dozen states — to sue ice over this policy . just before this guidance was released , harvard announced that it would be holding all of its classes online in the fall . all of the harvard students who spoke with business insider talked about how detrimental the sudden one - two punch has been of the new ice ruling coupled with harvard ' s announcement on online - only classes . despite their predicaments , they also spoke of friends in worse situations than they were in — who would have to live in abusive households , who came from dangerous or censorious countries , who are disabled , or who simply have to live with little - to - no internet connection . unstable internet and an uncertain futurebouchard said that he ' s now staying at a temporary apartment in quebec city , but has no idea where he will go next . " i pray i will be somewhere in the united states , " he said . " either on harvard ' s campus or away from campus with friends . " guillaume bouchard at the 2019 harvard - yale football game . guillaume bouchardanother canadian , austin siebold , who ' s from alberta , also just completed her freshman year . over an unstable facetime connection , she talked with business insider about how taking many of her courses last spring had become difficult in many ways . " my internet speed is three mbps , " she said . " and i have among the best internet connectivity for a 100 km radius . " besides the internet , there ' s the question of timing . siebold ' s daily chinese language course moved from being at 9 a . m . to being at 7 a . m . because of the time difference between her home and boston . she had to skip required classes just to eat lunch , she said , as the time changes in her schedule no longer made it possible to both attend class and stay fed . austin siebold . austin siebold " i ' m not sure how harvard intends to make this work , " she said . " there ' s a lot of fear and uncertainty . " siebold said that she ' s relatively lucky , only having to deal with a two - hour time difference . meanwhile , shriank kanaparti , a rising harvard senior , would have to go home to bangalore , india , which is 10 and a half hours ahead of the east coast . right now , kanaparti said that he ' s camped out at the home of a friend in tennessee . austin siebold in front of memorial church with two fellow albertans . austin siebold " this policy undermines a lot of the values that bring international students here , " kanaparti said , referring to the new ice guidance . " this is really disappointing for the larger international community . " kanaparti said he tried to remain positive and hopeful , but was delaying making any decisions on where to go until there was more guidance from the university . facing down the military draftvlad ivanchuk , another rising harvard sophomore , is from a small town in the west of ukraine . his f - 1 visa expired in the spring . this means ivanchuk can ' t leave without potentially being barred from entering again . vlad ivanchuk ( right ) with his friend from turkey . vlad ivanchuk " i haven ' t been home in a year , " he told business insider . " now , if i went home , i wouldn ' t be able to re - enter because all the embassies are closed . " even if he were deported under the new ice rule , ivanchuk said , he ' s not even sure how he would get back . ukraine isn ' t exactly the most accessible place from boston , he explained . " tickets are easily $1 , 000 one way , " he said , and flights might only go once or twice a month . plus , ivanchuk added , things weren ' t good back home and he didn ' t feel comfortable moving back . " i ' m in a difficult living situation , " he said . " if i ' m forced to go back for an entire academic year , i would have to rely on myself to arrange rent and a safe place to study . " vlad ivanchuk . vlad ivanchukand then there ' s the matter of ukrainian military service . ukraine is in a protracted conflict with russia in the east of the country , and two years of military service is currently compulsory for all able - bodied people in the country over the age of 18 . service can be postponed for higher - level education , but ivanchuk said he wasn ' t extremely sure that would apply now . " if i get sent back , i doubt the government would consider online education a valid reason for another extension , " he said . " i might be forced to enlist in military service . " harvard ' s decision to stay remoteivanchuk , bouchard , siebold — all of whom fall in the " first generation , low income " ( fgli ) college student bracket — said that they ' re at a loss as to how to handle continuing their education . yale and mit , harvard ' s neighbors and academic peers , have announced that they ' ll be offering hybrid in - person / online classes in the fall . elsewhere , students at the university of michigan , unc - charlotte , uw - madison , university of washington , and the georgia institute of technology , among others , have started petitions to create one - credit , in - person courses in which international students may enroll to keep them in the country . harvard has opted to take neither of these routes . rachael dane , a spokesperson for harvard , told business insider that " the overwhelming reason to deliver all instruction remotely is harvard ' s commitment to protecting the academic enterprise and preserving academic continuity for all of our students . " she added that it ' s a way of making classes more fairly accessible for those who will inevitably , one way or another , be far away . offering all courses online , rather than offering a hybrid model , will " ensure that academic continuity for all students is maintained , " dane said , " even if travel restrictions , visa issues , or health considerations keep them away from campus . " harvard has said that this fall they will attempt to schedule all classes between 7 : 30 a . m . and 10 : 15 p . m . in the student ' s local time , and that some may even be offered more than once a day . but , according to siebold , schedules are still extremely unclear , making it difficult to do things like schedule a part - time job or take care of family members . harvard has also released an application to all students who wish to petition to stay on or come back to campus in the fall . the form asks them simple " yes - no " questions about how good their internet connection is , how recent their computer model is , whether they have a " safe , quiet " environment to work in , and whether they have any " shelter or food insecurities . " the deadline to turn in these appeals is monday , july 13 . in terms of how many students will be accepted , dane told business insider that the university will have " a capacity of up to 40% " in the fall . bouchard said that the form did not at all capture the full range of challenges that would be facing fgli students — especially international students . " this does not capture the experience of those who are homeless , or have disabilities , or will have to live in an abusive environment , " he said . " all these people will be put into a non - conducive learning environment . the language [of the survey] and the lack of recognition of those specifics is dehumanizing . " bouchard is part of a group circulating a petition called " hear us harvard , " alleging that harvard " has failed to implement infrastructural support for working students , students experiencing domestic violence in their environment , students facing housing instability , and for international students . " the petition asks , among other concerns , that international students not " be left to fend for themselves " and that " low income and working students be given more support . " " if you want us to achieve the ' american dream ' and become generous donors , you better support us now , " bouchard said . disclosure : the author of this piece is a 2010 - 2011 graduate of harvard college . 
__label__relevant gilbert rozon sex assault trial to take place over five days in june montreal - - entertainment mogul gilbert rozon ' s trial for rape and indecent assault will take place over five days in june . crown and defence lawyers appeared before a judge tuesday and agreed to trial dates from june 8 to june 12 . a publication ban covers the identity of the victim - - a female complainant with allegations dating back to 1980 in st - sauveur , que . the alleged offences took place between june 1 and sept . 21 , 1980 , when rozon was 25 . he was not in court for tuesday ' s date - setting . prosecutor bruno menard says the crown will reserve comment until it ' s time to present the case to the court , but he did say the alleged victim would testify . " i don ' t want to go over the nature of the evidence that we ' re going to present in the case , we prefer to present that first and foremost in court , " menard told reporters . rozon , 65 , a founder of just for laughs , was charged in december 2018 with rape and indecent assault . he opted for a trial before judge alone during a court appearance last month . in november , rozon renounced his right to a preliminary hearing . the allegations against rozon have not been tested in court . the charges reflect those that were on the books at the time of the offences - - rape has been replaced by sexual assault in the current version of the criminal code . the maximum sentence is life in prison , but the prosecutor noted that maximum sentences are rarely imposed by the court , and each case is examined individually . the prosecutor also brushed aside any challenges presented by the heavy media attention the case has received . " once we ' re inside the courtroom , it ' s not important , " menard said . " what does count is the evidence and the charges . " rozon ' s lawyer , pierre poupart , did not speak to reporters on tuesday . this report by the canadian press was first published jan . 7 , 2020 . 
__label__relevant paid time off for victims of domestic violence is the ‘beginning of a wave , ’ says expert several new deals reached between the federal government and one of its biggest civil - service unions that allow paid time off for victims of domestic violence are the start of a trend , says an academic expert on violence against women and children . the tentative agreements , reached late last month with the professional institute of the public service of canada ( pipsc ) , include up to 10 paid days of leave to help union members escape their violent partners , a provision the union calls “ historic . ” “ i think it ’ s the beginning of a wave , ” says barb macquarrie at western university ’ s centre for research and education on violence against women and children . story continues below advertisement “ i expect that we are going to be seeing many more agreements … and also more employer policies that proactively offer leave . ” canada currently has a patchwork of legislation that provides for domestic - violence leave . nationally , the government recently passed legislation allowing federally regulated workers who are survivors of such violence to take 10 days off — five of those days paid and five unpaid . the change , which includes time off for parents of children who are victims of family violence , comes into force sept . 1 . ontario and manitoba , for instance , each provide five days of paid leave while some other provinces offer fewer days of paid leave or unpaid leave with job protection . while exact eligibility rules vary across the country , most provisions allow time off to seek medical attention , to move or to seek legal advice or file a police report in connection with domestic violence . the philippines was the first country to pay for domestic - violence leave after creating a law to that effect in 2004 . new zealand and australia followed , allowing for 10 days off , paid in new zealand and unpaid in australia . in canada , the federal government ’ s agreements with pipsc ensure “ the workplace is not a barrier to survivors seeking support when facing domestic violence , ” union president debi daviau said in a statement . story continues below advertisementnot only are governments catching onto the need to help their employees escape violence , but private companies are , too , macquarrie said . she pointed to training on the issue she was contracted to do this month for rio tinto , the largest mining and metals company operating in canada . “ this is not a union - led initiative , this is an employer - led initiative , ” she said . “ canada is part of this more international movement towards understanding domestic violence . ” what statistics canada refers to as intimate - partner violence — offences that occur between spouses , common - law partners , people who are dating or in other intimate relationships — accounted for 30 per cent of all police - reported violent crime in canada in 2017 , the most recent year for which data is available . women were almost eight in 10 victims . a survey on prevalence of domestic violence and how it is impacting work , conducted by western university and the canadian labour congress over a six - month period that ended in june 2014 , indicated that canadian employers lose nearly $78 million annually as a result of domestic violence , and that a third of respondents reported having experienced domestic violence at least once in their lifetimes . story continues below advertisementdomestic violence isn ’ t something that affects people only at home , daviau said . “ it very frequently follows ( employees ) into the workplace , whether that ’ s an abusive spouse , contacting colleagues or showing up in the workplace , ” she said in an interview . the issue was raised by pipsc as part of contract bargaining in 2016 , and working groups were formed to tackle the problem . but this latest tentative agreement marks the first time the government has acknowledged it in a contract as a separate workplace issue that requires giving people paid time off specifically to deal with it , said daviau . achieving the paid - leave provision was an emotional moment , daviau said , because there was a realization around the table that such allocations would likely take hold in other government departments , and then eventually catch on in workplaces outside the government . “ we shed tears over this gain because it is historical and it ’ s meaningful , ” she said . “ and it ’ s likely to raise the bar for all workers . ” the federal government has reached new tentative contracts with 18 unions so far this year . results of ratification votes on agreements covering over 60 , 000 federal employees are expected over the summer . 
__label__no_relevant montreal reports 20 new covid - 19 deaths , 63 additional confirmed cases montreal - - there are now 3 , 088 people who have died of covid - 19 in montreal , public health authorities announced tuesday , as confirmed cases in the city reached 26 , 351 . that ’ s up 20 from the 3 , 068 reported monday ; covid - 19 cases in montreal rose 63 from the 26 , 288 announced a day earlier . the daily increase in covid - 19 deaths announced tuesday was higher than that reported monday , when five new deaths were reported . however , the 63 additional cases announced tuesday are lower than the 83 new cases reported a day earlier . the borough of montreal north has 2 , 456 confirmed cases of covid - 19 , the most of any of the city ' s boroughs . the borough also has the highest incidence of covid - 19 in montreal , with 2915 . 7 cases per 100 , 000 residents . with 352 deaths related to covid - 19 , the east - end montreal borough of mercier - hochelaga - maisonneuve remains the borough with the most fatalities linked to the disease . see the map : tracking covid - 19 cases in montrealhowever , the on - island suburb of town of mount - royal has the highest incidence of deaths due to covid - 19 , with 340 . 3 deaths per 100 , 000 residents . ( the higher incidence of deaths due to covid - 19 in tmr has been linked to long - term care facilities for seniors , of chslds , in the town , which have been hit hard by covid - 19 . public health officials on tuesday said there have been covid - 19 outbreaks in 119 chslds on the island of montreal , down one from the 120 reported monday . the agglomeration of montreal announced on tuesday that it is extended the state of emergency for the territory until june 14 . 
__label__relevant opinion : quebec ’ s values test : why not focus on everyday gender equality ? galloping from one controversial social policy to another , the government of quebec recently unveiled its “ values test ” for prospective immigrants . derided by some , the test requires newcomers to the province to be aware of a few “ key ” values . french is the official language of la belle province . polygamy is illegal , whereas marriage between two individuals is not . men and women are equal before the law . there ’ s nothing wrong in letting immigrants know what to expect about their future society . however , in view of bill 21 , one can ’ t help but be cynical about the coalition avenir québec ’ s attempt to narrowly define who is – and who isn ’ t – vrai québécois . quebec ’ s stance on gender equality is laughable in view of bill 21 – hijab - clad muslim women are barred from teaching in public schools , whereas muslim men are not . jewish men who sport a kippa or yarmulke cannot serve as prosecutors or clerks in a provincial court , while jewish women face no such restrictions . the courts will decide if the notwithstanding clause overrides the violation of gender equality ( as enshrined in section 15 of the canadian charter of rights and freedoms ) . nevertheless , we should emphasize gender equality to those arriving from countries where women are accorded fewer resources and rights than men . according to the 2016 census , three of the top 10 countries of birth of recent immigrants were pakistan , iran and syria – all of which finished in the bottom five ( of 145 countries ) of the world economic forum ’ s 2015 global gender gap index . story continues below advertisementthe culture shock can be great . i still remember my cousin ’ s surprise when he could not access his mother ’ s bank account as a matter of right , as he used to do in saudi arabia . or one middle eastern relative who was dismayed that his wife was automatically a co - owner of the marital home . or one husband ’ s disbelief that he would have to split marital assets 50 - 50 in the case of divorce . these are hard - won rights for women that should never be compromised . immigrant men have complied and adapted to the new reality . and that ’ s a good thing . while current guidelines from immigration , refugees and citizenship canada reiterate the equality of women and men before the law , they might want to add a line or two referring to everyday examples – such as financial independence and property rights of women . instead , these guidelines leap to examples of criminal behaviour , stating : “ canada ’ s openness and generosity do not extend to barbaric cultural practices that tolerate spousal abuse , ‘honour killings , ’ female genital mutilation , forced marriage or other gender - based violence . ” such dramatic pronouncements , however , don ’ t help immigrants learn about the positive aspects of gender equality . and they lull canadians into a sense of complacency that women in canada are doing just fine . not so fast . in her compelling memoirs , truth be told , beverley mclachlin chronicles her own efforts to combat sexism within the legal profession but points to the broader fight for women ’ s equality throughout canadian society . a fight that is by no means close to over . according to the 2018 gender gap index , canada ranks 16th in the world ( out of 149 countries ) for its equitable distribution of resources between men and women . while we are tied for first in the field of education , we are 21st in political empowerment , 27th in economic participation and 104th in health / survival . the relatively high placements in politics and economics , however , mask absolute inequities . for example , in 2018 , statistics canada reported that canadian women earned 87 cents for every $1 earned by men . a 2018 angus reid study indicated that women are more likely than men to experience poverty . women in canada live at greater risk than men of domestic violence , sexual assault and harassment , and sex trafficking . even with the #metoo movement , women still underreport sexual assault and harassment . women and girls are often subject to online hate and sexualized abuse . while women make up roughly half the population , they are underrepresented in political and professional leadership positions . as maclean ’ s anne kingston rightly observed , sexism permeated the 2019 election , culminating in a vicious , sexist slur painted on catherine mckenna ’ s campaign office . “ working toward gender equality is not only still relevant . it is urgent , ” observes the canadian women ’ s foundation . it ’ s a message we should all take to heart . the fight for gender equality begins here . story continues below advertisementkeep your opinions sharp and informed . get the opinion newsletter . sign up today . 
__label__no_relevant hubert gagnon , who played homer simpson in quebec version of show , dies at 73 montreal — for generations of quebec viewers , the bumbling , doughnut - loving cartoon dad homer simpson didn ' t speak with the american accent of voice actor dan castellaneta , but rather the quebecois lilt of hubert gagnon . gagnon died of cancer on sunday at the age of 73 . article continues belowhe was remembered on monday as a humble and generous man who bore little resemblance to the character he voiced on " the simpsons , " but still managed to make the role his own within the strict confines of quebec ' s french dubbing industry . gagnon acted on stage and in television in addition to voice acting , where he dubbed the voices of many hollywood stars including robert de niro , mel gibson , richard gere and nick nolte into french . but he was best known for his work on " the simpsons , " where he imbued the role of homer with a particular quebecois flair for 27 years , before stepping down in 2017 for health reasons . natalie hamel - roy , a quebec voice actor and director , said she always found it funny that someone as " charming , polite and refined " as gagnon was asked to play the boorish , crude homer . " it was pretty surreal that he was asked to play a character so little like him , because homer simpson is not subtle , so egotistical , " she said in a phone interview . nevertheless , hamel - roy said , gagnon excelled — possibly because he was able to instinctively understand how homer can be lovable despite his flaws . " hubert was an appealing person , and he knew how to make it an appealing character , " she said . hamel - roy knew gagnon through decades of acting jobs , including " the simpsons . " but she also directed him for five years when he voiced the lead character on the canadian drama series " da vinci ' s inquest . " she remembers him for his willingness to take direction , his kindness to newcomers in the field , and his skill for being able to convey an action only through voice , which became known as a " gagnonerie " in his honour . she believes that while gagnon might have been nothing like homer simpson , he enjoyed the sense of humour and the rare chance to be recognized , in a field that by definition requires an actor to disappear . johanne leveille , who voices the character of bart on the show , said gagnon was well suited for the challenges of the role . " homer is a complicated character , because in one sentence he can have three different intentions , from joy to anger to sadness in the same sentence . and frankly hubert succeeded in doing it in a magic way , " she said in a phone interview . but while the american cast has the benefit of being able to speak at their own rhythm , a voice actor must synchronize each word and syllable to something that ' s already been drawn for someone else . " the simpsons , " which premiered in 1989 , is a satirical look at quintessential american middle class life , as embodied by the middle - class title family . but as the show has been dubbed into multiple other languages , each version has taken on its own distinctive flair . leveille said that while gagnon and the rest of the cast were originally chosen because they were " the most identical to the original , " that shifted slightly over time . " over the course of the years , we managed to make it a little more ours , " she said . gagnon , too , became " a little less a copy of the original , in his manners , his way of doing , " despite being inspired by the american version , she believes . the quebec version also takes some liberties with the script , inserting local sayings and places , and swapping out some celebrity references to quebec public figures . hamel - roy believes the show lends itself well to this kind of tailoring , noting that the writers makes a point of choosing a generic setting with no precise geographical markers . much like the cartoon simpsons , leveille said the cast of the quebec show have become a tight - knit family over the last 30 years . and while gagnon wasn ' t much like homer , that love of family was one thing they shared , she said . " homer simpson deeply loves his family , and hubert loved profoundly as well , " she said . " he loved his spouse , he loved his friends , so they had that in common . " this report by the canadian press was first published june 8 , 2020
__label__relevant mandryk : kindersley tragedy shows province must do more on domestic violence article contentlast month marked 35 years since the murder conviction in canada ’ s most notorious case of domestic violence . yet , strangely , we still don ’ t frame the first - degree murder conviction of colin thatcher and the death of his ex - wife , joann wilson , in those terms . we apologize , but this video has failed to load . tap here to see other videos from our team . try refreshing your browser , or mandryk : kindersley tragedy shows province must do more on domestic violence back to videoit says much about saskatchewan ’ s long and sad history with domestic violence and how this province seems to still be struggling mightily to come to terms with this issue . last thursday afternoon , we witnessed amurder - suicide in kindersley in which rcmp say david michael gartner , 66 , shot his wife elsie , 64 , before shooting himself . according to rcmp , the couple was going through a divorce and the murder - suicide occurred in the family home that was being sold . local rcmp said they had no knowledge of previous violent incidents between the oilfield worker and the care home worker . admittedly , the kindersley deaths were not the thatcher case . what happened last week wasn ’ t a movie - worthy drama involving a well - to - do politician and son of a former premier allegedly hiring a hit man to murder this ex - wife on a bitterly cold january 1983 night in a garage that sits kitty - corner to the saskatchewan legislature . when it comes to the thatcher case , there will continue to be stories told around the fire of the former mla muttering to progressive conservative caucus colleagues : “ why should i pay $800 , 000 ( in a divorce settlement ) when a bullet only costs a dollar . ” ( thirty - five years ago , the first question period of the fall sitting of the legislature opened with then - ndp opposition leader allan blakeney asking who in the pc caucus heard thatcher make that statement . ) 
__label__no_relevant sask . police chiefs , mayors say reducing enforcement is not as simple as defunding police police chiefs and mayors in saskatoon and regina say defunding police services is not the best approach to reducing police enforcement in saskatchewan communities , saying more provincial resources should be put into addressing social issues that contribute to high crime rates . " the answer is not at this time in our community , given the levels of crime we ' re seeing and the levels of violence , to say that you need to do this by pulling money out of police , " said saskatoon mayor charlie clark on monday . " what we need to be doing is building a much better system to respond to those issues . " a petition calling for the defunding of the regina police service had about 2 , 300 signatures late monday afternoon . calls to redirect funds away from police services were reignited after the death of george floyd , who died after a white police officer held his knee to floyd ' s neck for more than eight minutes in minneapolis . some councillors in that city , under pressure from weeks of protests against anti - black racism and police brutality across the united states and around the world , now say they will vote to dismantle the city ' s police force . new york city mayor bill de blasio has committed to moving money from the city ' s police budget into youth and social services . in toronto , two city councillors have put forward a motion to reduce the police budget by 10 per cent . proponents want funds redirected to social supportsproponents for defunding police services want money that goes toward enforcement redirected to community and social support services to reduce the need for police involvement in the first place . funding that currently goes to police services could instead , for example , pay the wages of social workers and other support staff who have more dedicated training and do not carry weapons , proponents say . participants showed up at the saskatchewan legislature building on june 7 , 2020 . ( heidi atter / cbc news ) in saskatchewan , calls to establish an independent police oversight body have been ongoing for years . premier scott moe says discussions about changing that are underway . body cameras will be tested in saskatoon starting this year . a petition calling for the regina police service to be defunded outlines its reasons for wanting to cut police funds . " the police budget increases while community groups like white pony lodge and mobile crisis , which provide low - cost alternatives to policing , are forced to rely on gofundme campaigns , personal donations , and small grants from the city , " the website reads , in part . " [this is] in spite of the fact that they provide many of the same services as police , without requiring weaponry , communications departments , cells , or armoured vehicles . " the petition had around 2 , 300 signatures late monday afternoon . sask . crime rates too high : police chiefs , mayorsbut police chiefs and mayors in saskatoon and regina say the crime rate is too high to simply cut funding for officers . there were 18 homicides in saskatoon last year , the highest number ever recorded . regina has recorded seven homicides in the year to date , and saskatchewan overall has one of the highest homicide rates of all the provinces . regina police chief evan bray said the police budget cannot be reduced unless more funding from the provincial government is put into social support services , such as those for mental health and addictions . hundreds gathered outside the legislative building in regina , saskatchewan on june 5 at a solidarity rally showing support for those in protesting injustice in the united stated and canada . see police officer ' taking a knee . ' ( bryan eneas / cbc ) " we are responding to … year - to - date , 370 overdose calls , more than two a day , " said bray . " on average , especially through this pandemic , we are responding to 19 domestic conflict calls per service per day . firearms calls are a daily activity for us and multiple times daily in many cases and so we are an extremely busy police service . " he said partnerships with community groups would be welcomed if they reduce the social work that police do so they can focus on safety . issues ' beyond scope of police service ' : fougereregina mayor michael fougere said redirecting more funds to support services for domestic violence , homelessness and addictions is not as simple as removing funds from the police service . " that becomes difficult because [the question is] how do we continue to provide a safe community , but also how do we engage other orders of government in a much larger conversation about what ends up being crime , " he said . " what causes crime , what causes disadvantage , what causes alienation — these are issues that are beyond the scope of the police service . " saskatoon police chief troy cooper said systemic changes that go beyond additional funding are needed to reduce the need for enforcement . saskatoon police chief troy cooper said he supports funding other parts of the commuinty to reduce interactions with the police . ( cbc news ) " if there is a way to have other parts of the community funded so that it results in less interactions with justice then absolutely i ' m supportive of that , " said cooper . " it ' s not always about funding actually . if we ' re talking about structural change some of it is about legislation with an eye on the impact on the community . some of it is about public policy . " cooper cited the gang violence reduction strategy , which was funded with $11 . 9 million from the federal government , as an example of a crime reduction approach that is not all about enforcement . programs that have received funding through the program include str8 - up , which helps individuals leave gang life for good . but he said more funding for services like a provincial drug strategy would help reduce the need for police involvement . " enforcement is an important part of that but so is addictions treatment and so is education and so is harm reduction , so i think that when we fund all of those sort of broader strategies and public supports or social supports , we have to do it with the reliance on a community response rather than just an enforcement response . " cooper said saskatchewan police are already working toward more partnerships in that vein . cities can ' t control ministries that fund social issues : clarksaskatoon mayor charlie clark said he recognizes that the community is not going to be able to " arrest our way out of crime . " but he said the city does not control funding that goes toward addressing the root causes of crime . " for the city to simply think that by us reducing our funding to police that we can address these issues when we don ' t actually have control over the ministries that fund the social issues — it doesn ' t work that way , " said clark . he said aligning the community efforts with those of the provincial government is key to improving the situation . " the safe community action alliance , along with the community safety and well - being partners table , has put forward dozens of recommendations to the provincial government , particularly around youth , addictions and mental health and some of these issues . " and we ' ve been getting engagement with the provincial government and these ministries . we think there ' s a lot more opportunity to address these issues and to work together . " he said anybody who is interested in the conversation about redirecting funds toward social services can contact the city to participate in their efforts . saskatchewan premier scott moe said restructuring police services is not being actively considered but that he is open to discussions . " there is a very important conversation i think as we move forward through the next number of days and it ' s been an ongoing conversation , " said moe . 
__label__no_relevant covid - 19 : here ' s what the province has named critical public services regina - - here ’ s a full list of critical public services the government says can continue to operate “ workers must follow personal protective measures to prevent the transmission of covid - 19 , ” the province said in a news release , health care and public health workersoccupations in health and social servicespre - hospital and emergency services ( like paramedics , dispatchers ) private professional resources offices ( health network ) pharmaciesdentistry ( emergency services only ) optometry ( emergency services only ) physiotherapy ( emergency services only ) laboratories and specimen collection centrescaregiversmedical facilities ( emergency services only ) businesses that provide products and / or services that support health servicesprivate seniors ’ residences and serviceshome services for seniors , those with disabilities and the vulnerablespecialized resources in accommodation ( like domestic violence , homelessness , addictions ) 811 and 911 call centre workerscanadian red crosscanadian blood servicesproduction , supply and distribution of items like drugs , vaccines , pharmaceutical goods and medical equipmentlaw enforcement , public safety and first responderspolice servicesfire servicescorrectionsspecial constablessecurity agencieslegal and professional servicescivil security , coroners and pathologyforest firefighters and all types of professionals supporting civil security operationscourthouse ( staff required to maintain minimum operations ) communication servicesprofessional and social services that support the justice system911 call centre workershazardous material responders from government , private sectorworkers who maintain digital infrastructure supporting law enforcement and emergency service optionsgovernment and community servicesemergency child careonline higher educationtraining related to critical public servicesproviders of goods and services for the vulnerablefood inspectorswaste collection and disposalair ambulance , starssuicide prevention servicessupport services for victims of domestic violenceincome security and social securityall utilities ( power , gas , water , wastewater , telephone ) and service providersresources deemed essential by the municipalities ( i . e . administration , public workers , etc . ) animal sheltersproduction , processing , manufacturing and the supporting supply chainsproduction , processing and supply chains of the mining sector , forestry sector , energy , oil and gas sectors , the agriculture sector including animal care and the manufacturing sectorbusinesses , facilities and services that support and carry - out the two - way movement of essential goods within integrated north american and global supply chainstransportation and logisticspublic transport , transport of peopleairports and maintenance workerstransport , storage and distribution of goodsroad construction and maintenanceservice stations and mechanical repair of motor vehicles , trucks and specialized equipment for industriestaxis , ridesharing and paratransit servicespostal servicesbusinesses engaged in or supporting the operation , maintenance and repair of critical infrastructuremedia and telecommunicationstelecommunications ( network , equipment ) cable distributorsinformation communication technologynational medialocal mediaconstruction , maintenance and repairconstruction firmsservices performed by trades peoplerental equipmentbuilding maintenance , repair and housekeepingretail servicesgrocery and other food storespharmaciesconvenience storeshardware , home supply and appliance storesfuneral homes , cremation and cemeteriesrestaurants ( take out , delivery only ) hotels , motels , shared rental units and similar facilities , including student residencescleaners , drycleaners and laundromatsmedical supplies and servicespet food stores and suppliesmoverswork equipment ( safety and protection ) automotive dealers , auto repair and autobody shopsstores selling beer , wine , liquor or cannabis productsgas stations , diesel , propane and heating fuel providersbusinesses that supply office products and servicesrental and leasing servicesprofessional services including lawyers and para - legals , engineers and translatorsland registration services and real estate agent servicesbusinesses providing security services including private security guards , monitoring or surveillance equipment and servicesbusinesses providing staffing services , including temporary helpbanking and financial services
__label__relevant domestic violence survivor wishes sask . bill could have come earlier send this page to someone via emaila bill that ’ s currently being reviewed would allow people fleeing domestic abuse to break a lease without penalty and be able to take a certain amount of paid and unpaid days off work . rebecca stepan left her husband six years ago and said this bill can be a great help for women . “ i wish that would have been in place when i was going through that , ” she said . in 2011 , stepan had already moved out of the home she shared with her ex - husband . she said this was a step in slowly separating from him . her decision to separate fully came one night in july . “ he got very aggressive . he scaled three floors up to my apartment building and tried to pry the patio door off its hinges , ” she said . “ he did that on more than one occasion , in which case i had to continue to file reports with police . ” story continues below advertisementthe situation began to sort itself out once stepan ’ s ex - husband moved away . however , that was far from the end . “ he still periodically will make drop in visits , he still stalks me , he ’ s still trying to gain access to our son , he ’ s still not paying child support , ” stepan said . this has resulted in six years of reports to the police , court appearances , and counselling for her son . read more : sask . ndp introduces bill to support victims of domestic violenceunder the proposed legislation , people fleeing abuse are eligible for 10 paid days off and an unpaid leave of up to 17 weeks per year . “ within the last three weeks of my life there ’ s been numerous times i ’ ve had to call my boss and say i can ’ t make it in today ; i ’ ve got court or i have to go talk to the chief of police today , ” stepan said . stepan said her current employer is supportive of her situation , but she ’ s had to leave jobs in the past because she couldn ’ t get the necessary days off . “ it ’ s pretty much all life consuming , ” stepan said . read more : saskatchewan has highest family violence rate among provinceswhen stepan made the final decision to leave he then husband she ’ d already moved into her own apartment . she ’ s thankful she didn ’ t have a lease acting as an obstacle , but other women she ’ s met through support groups weren ’ t as fortunate . story continues below advertisement “ it ’ s a fear that you shouldn ’ t have to be concerned about , whether or not you ’ re going to have to sit it out for year , ” she said . bill 603 was tabled by ndp justice critic nicole sarauer , and is supported by both parties . on thursday justice minister gordon wyant said his ministry is reviewing the language of the bill . wyant talking with the ministry of labour relations about the days off . the bill is expected to pass into law by the end of the spring legislative session . 
__label__relevant saskatchewan remembers victims of montreal ’ s ecolé polytechnique massacre send this page to someone via emailthe saskatchewan government said it is everyone ’ s responsibility to fight violence against women on the 30th anniversary of the shooting at montreal ’ s ecolé polytechnique . fourteen female engineering students were murdered on dec . 6 , 1989 , when a gunman opened fire on the montreal campus . thirteen other people were injured . “ combatting violence against women and girls is everyone ’ s responsibility , ” tina beaudry - mellor , saskatchewan ’ s minister responsible for the status of women , said friday in a statement . “ the national day of remembrance on december 6 provides us with a day to remember and honour those who have lost their lives through violence and to think of ways we can each help . ” story continues below advertisementnumerous displays and vigils in saskatchewan reflected on the impact of the shooting . photos of the victims were displayed at saskatchewan polytechnic to remember who they were and the potential they had . some students were learning about the massacre for the first time . 2 : 47 canada ’ s failure to end violence against women canada ’ s failure to end violence against women “ they ’ re all horrified . you can tell that they can ’ t believe something like that happened and that it was in our country , ” said brittany grimsdale , saskatchewan polytechnic program head for the women in trades and technology department . the anniversary of the shooting especially hits home for female engineering students . thirty years after the attack , scholarships and support systems are now offered to female students , but oppression still exists . story continues below advertisement “ it ’ s just a matter of accepting one another , ” said hibba syeda , vice - president ( vp ) academic of regina ’ s engineering student society . “ society has definitely changed and will continue to change because we do have events like these where we are raising awareness . ” jill arnott , the executive director of the university of regina ’ s ( u of r ) women ’ s centre , said the date is a chance for people to renew their commitment to ending gender violence . “ the only path forward requires all of us to acknowledge the attitudes and biases that normalize violence , ” arnott said . “ we all need to tell the truth about , confront , and call out sexual and interpersonal violence when we see it , even when it is uncomfortable to do so . ” 4 : 23 remembering the ecole polytechnique massacre remembering the ecole polytechnique massacrejustice minister don morgan said the government has taken steps to end violence against women and girls . story continues below advertisement “ we ’ re taking action to ensure saskatchewan is a place where women can live , work and go to school without needing to worry about the threat of violence , ” morgan said . one step the government pointed too was the passing of clare ’ s law this year . saskatchewan was the first province to adopt the law , which started in the united kingdom in 2014 after a woman named clare wood was murdered by a partner who police knew had a violent record , but the information was not disclosed to her . the saskatchewan act allows police to release information about someone ’ s violent or abusive past to intimate partners . nilgun onder , the u of r ’ s associate vice - president ( academic ) , said more needs to be done . “ while progress has been made towards gender equity in post - secondary education in the 30 years since this tragedy took place , there is still work to do in making canadian university campuses safe and welcoming places for women in all fields of study , onder said . “ that ’ s why it ’ s critical we continue to honour the victims and never let the memory of this terrible event fade . ” story continues below advertisementthe government said it has taken other steps to help those dealing with gender - based violence , including offering paid leave to victims of domestic violence and changing the way sexual violence cases are reviewed by police . “ our government is committed to making our communities safer and reducing crime , specifically for those at risk of gender - based violence , ” morgan said . ministries within the saskatchewan government also take part in the white ribbon campaign , which launched in 1991 to raise awareness , promote gender equality and condemn gender - based violence . 8 : 29 école polytechnique massacre : why we remember 30 years later école polytechnique massacre : why we remember 30 years later
__label__relevant two nanaimo men charged with human trafficking in saskatchewan two 19 - year - olds from nanaimo were arrested and charged in saskatchewan for alleged human trafficking . ( file photo / nanaimonewsnow ) human trafficking two nanaimo men charged with human trafficking in saskatchewan jan 30 , 2020nanaimo — two nanaimo men were arrested and charged in saskatchewan for allegedly trafficking two young women . rcmp in swift current , sask . said twins seyed kourosh miralinaghi and seyed kamran miralinaghi , both 19 from nanaimo , were arrested on jan . 28 . they were in a three - car convoy spotted driving more than 150 kilometers per hour on the trans - canada hwy . towards swift current . police intercepted the vehicles and were quickly suspicious of the relationship between the four people in the various cars . 
__label__no_relevant coronavirus : saskatchewan trucking company president gives $50k in gift cards to laid - off workers send this page to someone via emaildennis day , the president of fast trucking service ltd . , had to lay off 250 of his 350 employees because of the coronavirus pandemic . knowing how big of a change this would be for many of his workers , he decided to help by giving $50 , 000 worth of co - op gift cards to his workers , so they could pay for groceries while waiting for cerb payments to start . he was unsure at first about the idea until he saw one of the workers at the grocery store . “ i ran into one of my guys and he had a 10 pound ham and 3 dozen buns , and that ’ s all he had , cause i know that ’ s all he could afford , ” day said . story continues below advertisementafter that encounter , day told the managers about what he wanted to do and then called co - op . “ i drove into estevan myself and picked them up , wrote all my guys a letter , and the girls sent them out . that was on a tuesday , and i think on wednesday i had over 100 texts and emails , and phone calls . , ” day said . [ sign up for our health iq newsletter for the latest coronavirus updates ]he said the business , which was started by his parents , has always felt like a family , and that they are known for looking out for each other . 1 : 17 u of r spring semester enrolment up despite online - only classes u of r spring semester enrolment up despite online - only classesquestions about covid - 19 ? here are some things you need to know : health officials caution against all international travel . returning travellers are legally obligated to self - isolate for 14 days , beginning march 26 , in case they develop symptoms and to prevent spreading the virus to others . some provinces and territories have also implemented additional recommendations or enforcement measures to ensure those returning to the area self - isolate . story continues below advertisementsymptoms can include fever , cough and difficulty breathing — very similar to a cold or flu . some people can develop a more severe illness . people most at risk of this include older adults and people with severe chronic medical conditions like heart , lung or kidney disease . if you develop symptoms , contact public health authorities . to prevent the virus from spreading , experts recommend frequent handwashing and coughing into your sleeve . they also recommend minimizing contact with others staying home as much as possible and maintaining a distance of two metres from other people if you go out . for full covid - 19 coverage from global news , click here . 
__label__no_relevant discarding food unnecessary for saskatchewan restaurants as need for donations grows send this page to someone via emaila restaurant throwing away food is akin to a bank throwing away money . but for some saskatchewan restaurants , the covid - 19 pandemic has put them in that very position . with thousands of layoffs and closures , the novel coronavirus has hit the food - service industry hard . for one saskatoon restaurant group , the result is a seemingly useless stockpile of perishable food . “ having that immediate closure — we understand the reason behind it , but it does provide a lot of waste that we ’ re unable to do anything with , ” taste restaurant group co - owner carmen hamm told global news . “ we make a lot of products ourselves , which means that there ’ s not really a lot of use outside of the context with which we make them . ” story continues below advertisementchopped vegetables , homemade dipping sauces and tapped kegs of beer won ’ t keep , she said . staff at the group ’ s four restaurants have grocery - shopped in the coolers and the organization has frozen as much food as possible . much of what ’ s left can ’ t go to saskatoon ’ s food bank , which only accepts non - perishables . food bank operations director deborah hamp said there ’ s been an increase in non - perishable food donations from restaurants . “ it ’ s been very much appreciated that all of the restaurants in saskatoon have been so generous with those donations , ” she said . that doesn ’ t mean perishables have to go in the trash , though . story continues below advertisementas pandemic - induced financial woes grow , several saskatoon organizations are accepting fresh - food donations to prepare meals for community members . staff from the friendship inn , the lighthouse , white buffalo and egadz all confirmed they ’ re accepting perishable food donations . egadz , a youth drop - in centre , is running low on perishables . “ we want to give people healthy food , not just empty carbs , ” egadz executive director don meikle said . “ we want to actually give them food that ’ s going to fill them up , that ’ s going to help with their mental health . ” hamm said that ’ s a positive for local restaurants in a particularly challenging time . “ to be able to have a place that we can offer our food is great news that it will go to good use , ” she said . questions about covid - 19 ? here are some things you need to know : health officials caution against all international travel . returning travellers are legally obligated to self - isolate for 14 days , beginning march 26 , in case they develop symptoms and to prevent spreading the virus to others . some provinces and territories have also implemented additional recommendations or enforcement measures to ensure those returning to the area self - isolate . symptoms can include fever , cough and difficulty breathing — very similar to a cold or flu . some people can develop a more severe illness . people most at risk of this include older adults and people with severe chronic medical conditions like heart , lung or kidney disease . if you develop symptoms , contact public health authorities . story continues below advertisementto prevent the virus from spreading , experts recommend frequent handwashing and coughing into your sleeve . they also recommend minimizing contact with others staying home as much as possible and maintaining a distance of two metres from other people if you go out . for full covid - 19 coverage from global news , click here . 
__label__relevant his father killed his mother . now he is sharing his story to help others saskatoon social worker treena wynes ' s job has shown her the impact domestic violence has on children . she also sees the long term effects every day in her own home . when treena ' s husband ken wynes — also a social worker — was a young boy , his father , an ex - cop , shot and killed his mom . " even in his adult life , he still carries few things from that experience , " treena said . the reason why domestic violence maybe isn ' t talked about so much is because it involves shame . - treena wynes " as you can imagine that kind of changed the course of my life , " ken said . stop the secrecytreena wynes is one of the organizers of the stop domestic violence conference in saskatoon . ken will share his personal story at the conference . after his dad shot and killed his mother in regina in 1970 , ken wynes had to live with his grandparents and was cut off from his father ' s side of the family . both grandparents died by the time he was 12 and ken found himself in foster care . he said he was initially placed with a family he could not bond with . " i was very depressed and i wasn ' t sure what was going to happen with my life , " he said . things eventually turned around when ken was assigned to a new foster family . " i had a family that i stayed with through high school and we ' ve stayed connected . they are my family today and they ' re amazing people . " ken and treena wynes will be part of a conference in saskatoon that is designed to help people recognize the signs of domestic violence . ( cbc ) lingering effectsken said the violence in his family had a profound impact . " mother ' s day , father ' s day those things come around . there ' s crafts in the school , there ' s you know , even christmas , any event like that i really didn ' t enjoy . i grew up an insecure kid . i grew up with attachment issues . i hate change because change was never positive for me . " this is the story he will bring to delegates at a domestic violence conference this week . treena said there is much secrecy when it comes to domestic violence and so anytime someone finds the courage to speak up and share their story it could help get the help they need . " you know we ' re seeing on in our news feeds all the victims of homicides that are happening , especially in saskatchewan , the rates are really high , " she said . " the reason why domestic violence maybe isn ' t talked about so much is because it involves shame and we just want to let people know that we need to just remove the shame . it could be happening in your neighbourhood it could be happening in your family . " 
__label__no_relevant sask . child poverty rates still among highest in canada : report saskatchewan ' s child poverty rates are higher than almost all other provinces , according to a report on the issue . the provincial rate of child poverty is about 26 . 7 per cent , it says in the saskatchewan report on child and family poverty that is based on 2016 data . the national rate was reported at 19 . 6 per cent . only manitoba and nunavut had worse numbers . the report says inequality has grown in saskatchewan . " again , saskatchewan has the dubious distinction of being the bottom of the pack . we have the highest domestic violence rate of all the provinces , the highest sexual assault rate of all the provinces , " said hillary aitken , who is the senior director of housing with ywca regina . aitken said she continues to see the same vulnerable people fall through the cracks and a lack of empathy for those doing the falling . " people are getting further removed from this problem and like to think of it as something that somebody else should respond to , " aitken said . the ywca works with children and moms at its emergency homeless shelter and domestic violence shelter . " we ' re seeing in both of those programs the need for services increased steadily . not only are we serving more women , but we ' re turning away more women , " she said . she said staff have to turn people away every day . aitken said these shelters are for extreme situations and don ' t account for the people struggling day - to - day to make ends meet . the ywca also has homes for children involved in the welfare system . aitken said the majority are apprehended and put in the system because of issues stemming from poverty . she said children are often apprehended because moms have to make tough choices to survive . for example , they may not be able to miss work to take a child to a doctor ' s appointment . she also said poverty is " disproportionately impacting indigenous kids in saskatchewan . " there is a downstream effect of poverty , she said , noting impoverished children can later become tied up in the justice or health systems if there is not early intervention . aitken wants to see action . " the report talks about a missed opportunity to turn things around — that investing in kids and family poverty is actually a good thing to do for our province — and it hasn ' t been done for many years . " minister says poverty ' is a concern ' minister of social services paul merriman said " poverty in the province of saskatchewan doesn ' t lie at the provincial government ' s feet . this is a community issue . " merriam said provincial data showed overall poverty rates dropped from 10 . 7 per cent in 2015 to 9 . 2 per cent in 2016 . merriam said the province will look to add more resources in identified " hot spots " such as saskatoon , north battleford and prince albert . ​ " we have some initiatives in place but it ' s going to take time . we can ' t fix this problem within a couple of years because it took us years to get here . " author says stats unsurprising " unfortunately , this is not surprising , " said miguel sanchez , an associate professor in sociology at the university of regina who co - authored saskatchewan ' s report . he said the subjects of the report are children , " who through no fault of their own have to experience the effects of poverty . " sanchez said that when saskatchewan experienced its resource boom , there was an " overwhelming message that economic growth will solve poverty . " miguel sanchez co - authored saskatchewan ' s report and says it ' s frustrating that the provincial rate of child poverty continues to measure well - above the national average . ( cbc ) he said the numbers indicate economic growth isn ' t the solution to saskatchewan ' s child poverty problem . sanchez wants people to consider economic redistribution and government transfers as a solution . the numbers show child poverty numbers would be much higher had it not been for government assistance , he said . 
__label__relevant new mens support group launches in tri - community the next meeting is feb . 2 at 5 p . m . at the piwapan women ' s centre main office . ( derek cornet / larongenow staff ) mental health new mens support group launches in tri - community jan 30 , 2020domestic violence , fatherhood , mental health , suicide and relationships are all topics up for discussion at a new support group for men 18 and up in the tri - communities . the first meeting was held jan . 26 at the piwapan women ’ s centre main office along la ronge avenue and attracted 16 men . that ’ s according to organizer christopher merasty who said he started the group on his own because he noticed there was a lack of services for men in the tri - communities . “ i believe that the support group is necessary for the community and its goals to become healthier , ” he said . “ i found there are many supports for girls and women , however , there are very little for the men . ” at the first gathering , attendees discussed the rules of the meetings and went over certain mental health issues . there was also a chance for men to address the group , as well as supper and talks about what the topic of the next meeting will be . 
__label__relevant annual awake - a - thon raises money for domestic violence initiative article contentshe did what she needed to after finding out her boyfriend was doing drugs . she reached out to his family to get him the help he needed and then candyce fiessel got out . we apologize , but this video has failed to load . tap here to see other videos from our team . try refreshing your browser , or annual awake - a - thon raises money for domestic violence initiative back to videothey ’ d been living together in the house they bought shortly after high school , so she found a new place to live . when it came time to move , she let him help . “ that one weak moment of letting him back in after i ’ d been strong — separated myself from the situation — could have ended my life , ” recalled fiessel . the last thing she remembers from that night was going to bed . the next morning her sister and dad came looking for her and found her in the basement , ropes tied around her neck , wrists and ankles . “ i ended up having a central stroke due to lack of oxygen to the brain so i couldn ’ t walk , talk , eat or sleep , ” she said . fiessel shared her story of surviving domestic violence and the long journey of recovery with students and staff at sheldon - williams collegiate at an assembly friday . 
__label__relevant yukon status of women council collecting cell phones , computers for domestic violence victims during covid - 19 – yukon news heidi marion , project manager at the yukon status of women council , left , and aja mason , the director , sit for a photo with some examples of electronics that people can donate in order to help women in abusive situations now compounded by covid - 19 . ( crystal schick / yukon news ) computers and cell phone donations are being asked for in order to help women in abusive situations now compounded by covid - 19 . “ we do know that there are undeniably gendered impacts of the covid - 19 pandemic , ” said aja mason , director of the yukon status of women council , which put out a call for electronic devices on march 20 . some women don ’ t have access to them , and with many public spaces such as coffee shops and libraries closing up , those in precarious living environments won ’ t be able to use the internet as readily , she said , adding that work is being done in order to expand internet ranges in the city . “ we do know that gender based violence and things like domestic violence have increased in other places where lockdown measures are more severe , ” she said , noting that the yukon has some of the highest rates of domestic and sexualized violence in the country . brendan hanley , the chief medical officer of the yukon , said last week that the territory is not in lockdown . “ access to things like ordering food online or even being able to reach out socially and have connection with other people , you know , being able to contact or access sources of help or assistance if you are experiencing domestic violence — we recognize that there ’ s a whole swath of people in the yukon who are basically excluded from that . … ” mason said . the hope now is to connect women so that when things get even worse — a possible lockdown — women will have recourse , a way out , she continued . “ anything that could help mitigate some of the impacts of living in isolation , ” she said , noting that social distance , or self - isolation , could mean even more contact with an abusive partner . so far , local schools have offered to donate roughly 50 desktop computers . some cell phones have trickled in , too . these are ideal , mason said , because of their compact size . “ for certain , it is a lot easier to distribute smaller technologies , i . e . not desktops , as you can imagine , so we ’ re certainly still looking for laptops still and tablets , ” she said . making matters worse is the housing crunch in whitehorse , along with the pay gap between men and women , mason added , both of which present other difficulties in fleeing unsafe situations . mason said that pre - paid credit cards could be distributed eventually , which could help curb financial impacts . contact julien gignac at julien . gignac@yukon - news . comcoronavirus
__label__relevant new domestic violence shelter coming to yukon - kuskokwim delta hooper bay . ( photo via travis s . / flickr ) the community of hooper bay has never had a domestic violence shelter before , but that is expected to change in january 2020 , when shelter staff say they hope to be operating a new 24 / 7 shelter to serve women and their children . emma smith , the victims ’ services coordinator for the hooper bay victims services project , grew up in hooper bay and exclaimed her excitement for the shelter , saying “ we ’ re so happy ! ” smith says the shelter will also serve the surrounding sub - region : including chevak and scammon bay . the project is a partnership between the rural alaska community action program ( rural cap ) and the native village of hooper bay . that partnership between a non - profit and tribe allows them to utilize nearly half a million dollars of funds set aside for tribal entities from the office for victims of crimes . this is a small portion of the $42 million in federal grant funding for rural alaska public safety announced by u . s . attorney general william barr last month . rural cap ceo patrick anderson says plans for the shelter have been in the works for about a year , after hooper bay listed a domestic violence shelter as their biggest tribal justice need . he expects the comprehensive shelter to house 12 women and their children . “ the children suffer substantially when they witness domestic violence in the home and usually there are other adverse experiences that they ’ ve had already so our goal is to figure out how we can provide full wrap - around services and bring the family back to a non - violent state , ” anderson said . some of those wrap - around services include hiring individuals skilled in trauma - informed care and victim advocates . ideally , the shelter would be able to give financial advice too , as anderson acknowledges that separation from an abuser can also result in a loss of income . while exact job descriptions are still being drafted , anderson says rural cap is looking to hire up to 10 people to work at the shelter . “ we expect some to have experience or be trained in how a shelter operates and make sure that only the appropriate people are there and that the safety and security of the residents are assured , ” he said . construction began in september , renovating a three - bedroom apartment donated by the sea lion corporation . cathie clements with rural cap says the shelter is part of the sea lion corporation building and will have two four - person bedrooms , one three - person room and a common area . in hooper bay , victims services coordinator emma smith is planning out culturally relevant programming to help future shelter residents heal . for example , she ’ s looking for elders willing to share knowledge on grass - weaving or sewing . smith envisions them going out on the tundra for food - gathering or just fresh - air . “ they say the tundra is healing , spiritually healing for someone that is turmoiling inside , ” she said . many details are still being worked out , smith says , but hopefully the shelter will accommodate long - term and short - term guests . specialists and advocates will work out of the shelter , transferring survivors to the emmonak women ’ s shelter or elsewhere if necessary . for now , smith is focused on getting the word out to hooper bay and surrounding communities about the new domestic violence shelter coming to the yukon - kuskokwim delta . the hooper bay victims services project also includes partners from sea lion corporation , u . s . justice department , the emmonak women ’ s shelter , tundra women ’ s coalition , the alaska native women ’ s resource center , and the alaska network on domestic violence and sexual assault . other regional communities granted tribal set - aside funds for victims ’ services include the native village of kotlik , the asa ’ carsarmiut tribe ( also known as mountain village ) , holy cross , kawerak , unalakleet and the emmonak women ’ s shelter . if you are experiencing domestic violence , or the threat of domestic violence , you can reach out to the national domestic violence hotline at 1 - 800 - 799 - 7233 . 
__label__no_relevant public safety briefs for july 12 , 2020 information for this report was taken from publicly available law enforcement records and contains arrest and citation information . anyone mentioned in this report is presumed innocent . on july 4 at 10 : 07 p . m . , alaska state troopers received a report of a disturbance at the ninilchik river campground . the disturbance was being caused by carmon tuluk , 28 , of chevak . a records check showed that tuluk was on pretrial enforcement division ( ped ) supervision and had conditions of release to not consume alcohol . after a preliminary breath test at 10 : 45 p . m . , tuluk was arrested for violating conditions of release and taken to the homer jail . on july 4 at 9 : 03 p . m . , the soldotna alaska state troopers k - 9 team conducted a traffic stop on a silver 2007 gmc yukon near mile 112 . 5 of the sterling highway . the driver , johnathan t . carlson , 25 , of wasilla , had a 13 - year - old passenger in the vehicle . after investigation , carlson was arrested for driving under the influence and first - degree endangering the welfare of a minor . carlson was processed at the soldotna troopers ’ post and then taken to wildwood pretrial facility . on july 2 at 9 : 26 a . m . , alaska state troopers stopped a vehicle near mile 154 of the sterling highway , after observing james taylor , 55 , of ninilchik , driving the vehicle . troopers knew from prior contacts that taylor did not have a valid license . a records check confirmed that taylor ’ s license was revoked and he was on conditions of release . after taylor was issued a summons to appear in court for driving while license revoked and violating conditions of release , he was released to a licensed driver . on july 4 , alaska wildlife troopers , anchor point post , conducted a commercial fishing patrol of the kasilof commercial fishing district aboard the patrol vessel augustine . during the patrol , a vessel was observed west of the commercial fishing boundary , placing it in closed waters . the fishing vessel lisa ann was contacted about 3 . 2 nautical miles outside the designated fishing area . maxim gustevskyh , 40 , of anchor point , was contacted as the permit holder and captain onboard the vessel . gustevskyh was cited for commercial fishing in closed period waters , which carries a mandatory court appearance on aug . 5 in the homer court . all fish onboard the vessel were seized . on july 6 , alaska wildlife troopers contacted vera grundberg , 32 , of kenai , while she was participating in the upper cook inlet personal use dipnet fishery on the kasilof river . grundberg did not have the required 2020 upper cook inlet permit and was issued a citation , with bail set at $220 in kenai district court . on july 6 at 8 : 52 p . m . , alaska state troopers responded to a domestic disturbance at a residence in sterling . investigation revealed that wasilie paul bobby , jr . , 37 , of sterling , had damaged property of a family member by throwing rocks at their car window , causing it to shatter . he fled prior to trooper arrival . he was charged fourth - degree criminal mischief ( domestic violence ) , and an arrest warrant was requested . on july 6 at 8 : 27 p . m . , alaska state troopers dispatch received a report of gunshots near carmichael court in sterling . troopers responded to the area and contacted kenneth lano , 62 , of anchorage , and esther davis , 27 , of anchorage . investigation found that lano was violating his probation , and davis was found to be in possession of a controlled substance . lano was arrested for violating probation , and davis was arrested for fifth - degree misconduct involving a controlled substance . both were taken to wildwood pretrial facility without bail . on july 6 , after investigation into a fire that previously occurred in the 600 block of peninsula avenue , thomas ponsolle , 21 , of kenai , was arrested for first - degree arson , first - degree burglary , and violating conditions of release and was taken to wildwood pretrial facility . on july 6 at 4 : 24 p . m . , kenai police responded to a local grocery store , located near wildwood pretrial 10 of the kenai spur highway , for report of a shoplifting theft . officers responded and located the suspects . brandon j . saltenberger , 20 , of kenai , was arrested for third - degree theft and violating conditions of release . jessica e . segura , 21 , of soldotna , was arrested for fourth - degree theft and violating conditions of release . both were taken to wildwood pretrial . on july 6 at 10 : 12 p . m . , kenai police conducted a routine traffic stop near the area of fourth avenue . zachary g . kooly , 28 , of kenai , was arrested for driving while license revoked and violating conditions of release and was taken to wildwood pretrial . on july 6 at 10 : 41 p . m . , kenai police responded to a reddi ( report every dangerous driver immediately ) report and located and contacted the vehicle . barry j . siltmann , 55 , of kenai , was arrested for driving under the influence and taken to wildwood pretrial . on july 5 at 1 : 36 a . m . , kenai police conducted a traffic stop on the kenai spur highway near cinderella avenue . sean v . neil , 39 , of kenai was arrested on two counts of third - degree misconduct involving a controlled substance and taken to wildwood pretrial . on july 5 at 11 : 31 a . m . , kenai police responded to the area of birch street to assist the kenai fire department . dustin c . rediske , 25 , of kenai , was arrested for fifth - degree misconduct involving a controlled substance and petition to revoke probation and was taken to wildwood pretrial . on july 3 at 8 : 58 a . m . , kenai police responded to a report of a burglary in progress on lupine drive . darrell r . stevens , 31 , of kasilof , was arrested for first - degree burglary , third - degree theft , fifth - degree criminal mischief , and a $100 alaska state troopers bench warrant for failure to appear for pre - indictment hearing on original charges of first - degree vehicle , second - degree theft , and failure to stop at the direction of an officer . stevens was taken to wildwood correctional facility . on july 1 at 12 : 57 a . m . , kenai police responded to a 911 call about a disturbance at a business located near bridge access road and beaver loop road . after investigation , ali h . socdaal , 37 , of anchorage , was issued a summons for first - degree harassment . on july 1 at about 3 : 40 p . m . , kenai police contacted a wanted subject at a local business near wildwood pretrial 11 of the kenai spur highway . david j . russi , 55 , of kenai , was arrested on a soldotna alaska state troopers warrant for violating conditions of release charge , filed june 24 on the original charge of fourth - degree assault . russi was taken to wildwood pretrial . on july 7 at 11 : 02 a . m . , alaska state troopers received a report of a burglary at a business on east poppy lane . investigation revealed that someone broke into the business , stole about $300 in items , and caused damage to the structure . the investigation is ongoing . anyone with information is urged to call the alaska state troopers at 907 - 262 - 4453 or submit a tip to www . peninsulacrimestoppers . com . on june 17 at 7 : 54 a . m . , alaska state troopers responded to a disturbance at a residence on cape ninilchik in anchor point . investigation showed that kari curry , 32 , of anchor point , had violated a stalking protective order . curry had left the residence prior to trooper arrival , but on july 1 she was contacted and issued a summons for violating the stalking order . on july 7 , jayr laurente , 34 , of anchorage , and kevin ramoth , 30 , of anchorage , were each issued citations for taking salmon in a closed area during the 2020 upper cook inlet personal use dipnet fishery on the kasilof river . bail was set at $440 ( $220 each ) in kenai district court . on july 7 , soldotna alaska wildlife troopers contacted derek cabot , 37 , of sand point , while he was personal use dipnet fishing on the kasilof river . cabot was issued a citation for not having a valid resident sportfish license or a 2020 upper cook inlet personal use dipnet permit in possession . bail was set at $440 in kenai district court . on july 8 , the kenai police department received multiple calls and inquiries from individuals who have seen videos of the incident posted online about an assault that occurred on the beach on monday night . the kenai police department is investigating the incident , the individuals involved have been identified , and the investigation is ongoing . anyone who witnessed the event or has additional information to assist in the investigation is encouraged to contact the kenai police department at 283 - 7879 . on july 7 at 6 : 42 p . m . , kenai police responded to a reddi ( report every dangerous driver immediately ) report near mile 10 of the kenai spur highway . the officer was able to locate and traffic stop the reddi vehicle . as a result , louis l . maag , 57 , of alabama , was arrested for driving under the influence and taken to wildwood pretrial facility . on july 8 at 7 : 47 p . m . , the soldotna alaska state troopers k - 9 team responded to cache street in kasilof for a report of a disturbance . investigation revealed that a male and female had gotten into an altercation with a male on the property and that james shannon virgial pearce , 36 , of homer , grabbed a gas can full gas and threatened to light the structure on fire during the altercation . pearce was not on scene when troopers arrived . he was contacted several miles away at 9 : 42 p . m . . during the contact with pearce , he was found to have methamphetamine on his person . a records check revealed that pearce had two outstanding warrants for his arrest for third - degree and fourth - degree theft and second - degree criminal trespass . pearce was arrested and taken to wildwood pretrial facility without bail on the outstanding warrants and charges of a count of fifth - degree misconduct involving a controlled substance and two counts of third - degree assault . on july 9 , soldotna police received information from anchorage police about a stolen 2007 chevy pickup towing a trailer with an excavator on it that was possibly on the kenai peninsula . at 2 : 05 p . m . , an officer located the stolen pickup at a campsite in swiftwater park . at the campsite , officers contacted douglas lane , 36 , of palmer . lane admitted to driving the pickup to the soldotna area and also showed officers where he had abandoned the trailer and excavator on princeton avenue , off kalifornsky beach road . the trailer and excavator were also recovered . lane was arrested for first - degree theft and first - degree vehicle theft and was taken to wildwood pretrial facility . this case is still under investigation . on july 8 at 9 : 35 p . m . , soldotna police responded to a residence on sohi lane for a trespassing complaint . araisa silva , 19 , of soldotna , was arrested for second - degree criminal trespass and violating her court - ordered conditions of release and taken to wildwood pretrial . on july 7 at 8 : 43 a . m . , soldotna police responded to a residence on sohi lane for a report of a female under the influence of drugs . araisa silva , 19 , of soldotna , was arrested for violating her court - ordered conditions of release and taken to wildwood pretrial . on july 7 at 8 : 43 a . m . , soldotna police responded to a residence on sohi lane for a report of a female under the influence of drugs . araisa silva , 19 , of soldotna , was arrested for violating her court - ordered conditions of release and taken to wildwood pretrial . on july 5 at 1 : 05 a . m . , soldotna police stopped a vehicle on the sterling highway near tern circle . dorothy norris , 31 , of anchorage , was arrested for driving under the influence of drugs and taken to wildwood pretrial . on july 5 at about 10 : 50 p . m . , soldotna police responded to the safeway parking lot for a report of a female using drugs in a car . investigation led to the arrest of kelli acton , 29 , of sterling , for violating her court - ordered conditions of release . acton was taken to wildwood pretrial , and the car was impounded for further investigation . on july 5 at 1 : 05 a . m . , soldotna police stopped a vehicle on the sterling highway near tern circle . dorothy norris , 31 , of anchorage , was arrested for driving under the influence of drugs and taken to wildwood pretrial . on july 5 at about 10 : 50 p . m . , soldotna police responded to the safeway parking lot for a report of a female using drugs in a car . investigation led to the arrest of kelli acton , 29 , of sterling , for violating her court - ordered conditions of release . acton was taken to wildwood pretrial , and the car was impounded for further investigation . on june 30 at 3 : 52 p . m . , soldotna police received a report from fred meyer store loss prevention that a shoplifting suspect was fleeing the store in a vehicle . officers stopped the vehicle on birch street near soldotna avenue . robin bender , 37 , of anchorage , was arrested for third - degree theft , violating his court - ordered conditions of release , and providing false information and was taken to wildwood pretrial . beach assault update : 7 - 9 - 20on july 8 , a 15 - year - old male , of kenai , was arrested for fourth - degree assault and taken to the kenai youth detention facility . on july 9 , a 17 - year - old male , of kenai , was arrested for fourth - degree assault and taken to the kenai youth detention facility . on july 9 , elijah royal - reyna , 19 , of kenai , was issued a summons to court for fourth - degree assault . the investigation into the incident is ongoing . original press release : 7 - 8 - 20on july 8 , the kenai police department received multiple calls and inquiries from individuals who have seen videos of the incident posted online about an assault that occurred on the beach on monday night . the kenai police department is investigating the incident , the individuals involved have been identified , and the investigation is ongoing . anyone who witnessed the event or has additional information to assist in the investigation is encouraged to contact the kenai police department at 283 - 7879 . on july 9 , alaska wildlife troopers contacted james carter , 38 , of anchorage while he was participating in the 2020 upper cook inlet personal use dipnet fishery on the kasilof river . carter did not possess a 2020 upper cook inlet personal use permit . he was issued a citation , with bail set at $220 in kenai district court . on july 9 , alaska wildlife troopers contacted david turner , 54 , of anchorage , while he was participating in the 2020 upper cook inlet personal use dipnet fishery on the kasilof river . turner did not possess a 2020 upper cook inlet personal use permit . he was issued a citation , with bail set at $220 in kenai district court . on july 9 , alaska wildlife troopers contacted katopau ainuu , 23 , and korokota ainuu , 22 , both of anchorage , while they were participating in the 2020 upper cook inlet personal use dipnet fishery on the kasilof river . neither possessed a 2020 upper cook inlet personal use permit . both were issued citations , with bail set at $220 each in kenai district court . on july 9 at 8 : 18 p . m . , the soldotna alaska state troopers k - 9 team responded to a report of a disturbance between neighbors occurring at an address on diamond willow lane in soldotna . investigation revealed that david a . lovell , 53 , of soldotna , was in violation of a protective order . lovell was arrested and taken to wildwood pretrial facility . on july 5 , dalton grey , 33 , of eagle river , was cited by seward alaska wildlife troopers for failing to immediately record his shrimp harvest before leaving the fish cite in resurrection bay . bail was set at $120 in seward court . on july 4 , veronica quezada , 22 , of jalisco , mexico , was cited by seward wildlife troopers for not having a sportfishing license in possession when she was contacted fishing in resurrection bay . quezada was given a correctable citation or a bail set at $220 in seward court . on july 4 , jimmy allen , 52 , of fairbanks , was cited by seward wildlife troopers for sportfishing with more than one line in the water , after he was observed fishing with two fishing poles in resurrection bay . bail was set at $120 in seward court . on july 4 , eric noyes , 30 , of fairbanks , was cited by seward wildlife troopers for sportfishing with more than one line in the water , after he was observed fishing with two fishing poles in resurrection bay . bail was set at $120 in seward court . on july 4 , forrest wacker , 61 , of chugiak , was cited by seward wildlife troopers for harvesting an undersized lingcod in resurrection bay . wacker had retained a 33 . 5 - inch - long lingcod when the minimum is 35 inches long . the lingcod was seized and given to a local charity . bail was set at $170 in seward court . on july 4 , david smith , 77 , of ninilchik , was cited by seward wildlife troopers for harvesting an undersized lingcod in resurrection bay . smith harvested a 30 - inch - long lingcod when the minimum is 35 inches long . the lingcod was seized and given to a local charity . bail was set at $170 in seward court . on july 3 , hal ward , 77 of wasilla , was cited by seward wildlife troopers for not having a fishing license in possession when contacted fishing in resurrection bay . ward was given a correctable citation or a bail set at $220 in seward court . on july 3 , travis tubbs 42 of jefferson , oregon , was cited by seward wildlife troopers for sportfishing with more than one line in the water when he was observed fishing with two fishing poles in resurrection bay . bail was set at $120 in seward court . 
__label__relevant whitehorse daily star : partnership provides phones to vulnerable women partnership provides phones to vulnerable women vulnerable yukon women will receive free cell phones , complete with voice and data plans , as a safety measure in response to covid - 19 . by gabrielle plonka on april 9 , 2020vulnerable yukon women will receive free cell phones , complete with voice and data plans , as a safety measure in response to covid - 19 . “ we are very aware of the potential disproportionate impact the lack of cell phone or internet access will have on women , ” aja mason , the director of the yukon status of women council , told the star monday . mason is working with the council , northwestel inc . and the yukon government to distribute 325 cell phones to women in need . northwestel has donated the phones , and the territorial women ’ s directorate will subsidize the data plans . “ ( staying home ) may cause unsafe situations for people who are experiencing violence , are at risk or who need support , ” said jeanie dendys , the minister responsible for the directorate . “ this program provides a way for women to access supports , connect with their loved ones and apply for emergency funding programs . “ i am so grateful for this partnership to make this program available to those in need , ” dendys said . the women ’ s council will distribute the phones to individuals and to the women ’ s shelters in whitehorse , dawson city and watson lake . local staff at those organizations will provide the phones to their clients . women eligible for a free phone are those experiencing homelessness , fleeing violence or otherwise facing a precarious situation due to unstable income , housing or food security . the phones provided will be equipped with a four - month prepaid plan with unlimited calling and data . after the four months , it will be up to the recipient to pay for her own phone bill at $40 per month . mason said the council is encouraging women to put money aside from emergency relief benefits to pay for the continuation of the plans , and the council is working to secure extra funding . the cell phones will help yukon women access basic services , resources and emergency support during covid - 19 , when the usual mechanisms for accessing the internet are not available , such as at cafés and libraries . this is particularly important at a time where many offices are closed and normal support services only reachable via the internet or phone . mason said that the territory ’ s women ’ s organizations should expect an influx of domestic violence reports during and after the pandemic . “ rates of violence are already significantly high in the yukon ; there ’ s a massive housing crisis so people are already in situations where it ’ s not easy for them to leave their abuser because housing is so inaccessible , ” mason said . “ then you add , on top of that , a pandemic that is forcing people into lockdown . it ’ s a perfect storm . ” women ’ s advocates in china are reporting “ huge spikes ” in domestic violence rates after the first wave of covid - 19 swept the country , mason said . according to yukon statistics , rates of violence against women in the territory are already three times higher than that national average . “ we have a very primed situation for that in the yukon , so we anticipate that domestic violence rates will increase . ” yukoners can donate cell phones to this campaign at the women ’ s council offices at 308 hanson st . “ it is imperative that yukon women have access to the internet – especially those living in precarious situations , ” mason said . “ as the covid - 19 situation evolves , more stringent lockdown measures will have a disproportionate impact on marginalized women . ” 
__label__no_relevant yukon feeling optimistic as numbers of cases of covid - 19 remain low the chief medical officer for the yukon announced two new cases of covid - 19 bringing the total for the territory to eleven but says life could get back to normal this summer if people remain vigilant today . dr . brendan hanley said the new cases are related to a cluster in whitehorse that is associated with international travel . hanley said of the eleven total cases , eight have recovered from the virus . the yukon territory was one of the last to report a case of covid 19 and hanley attributes that to having an early advantage of learning about social and border measures abroad as neighboring provinces started experiencing community spread . “ that gave us evidence that the risk profile is changing from purely associated with international travel to now being associated increasingly with domestic travel ” hanley told aptn news . nicer weather is drawing more people to the outdoors , but hanley said most yukoners are taking social distancing seriously and following the measures announced by the government . the yukon recently announced that all territorial parks and campgrounds will remain closed until june . since the start of the covid - 19 pandemic , hanley has been responsible for keeping yukoners informed with the most up to date information on almost a daily basis . he said due to the fundamental steps being taken , the number of cases have remained low in the territory . ten of the cases have been reported in the city of whitehorse and one from an outside community . hanley won ’ t say which community citing privacy as the issue . he said if the trend continues , he is optimistic that life for yukoners could start returning back to normal by summer . “ if we can adhere to all of the physical distancing and maintain that , ” hanley said , “ we do more of in terms of encouraging the ability to have say recreational facilities reopen , summer activities , what are the parts we can relax . ” chris macintyre reporter / whitehorse chris was born in toronto but has lived all over canada . he moved to the yukon in 2009 where he lived and worked in dawson city . chris ’ s background is in radio broadcasting and he has worked with cfyt 106 . 9 , cbc yukon , and chon fm as a host and show producer . chris joined aptn news in may . report an error tell us your storyyour name * your email address * details * submit report
__label__relevant $30k not enough to keep women ’ s shelter out of deficit : executive director – yukon news the funding increase from health and social services is to account for rising costs of livingbarbara mcinerney , executive director of kaushee ’ s place transition home , speaks at a rally for non - for - profits outside the legislature in whitehorse on march 7 . ( crystal schick / yukon news file ) the yukon women ’ s transition home society , a not - for - profit overseeing organizations kaushee ’ s place and betty ’ s haven , is to receive a roughly $29 , 490 increase in the upcoming fiscal year — well below the level of funding it says it needs to stay afloat . as reported by the news last week , the society requires $525 , 000 more in core funding , according to the executive director of the society , barbara mcinerney . the current increase from the yukon government — two per cent , to be applied to each organization ’ s funding allotment — has been held up by health and social services minister pauline frost as means to brace for rising costs of living . the “ majority ” of ngos across the territory are also getting a two - per - cent funding increase , frost said in the house . however , that figure represents about 18 times less than what the society says it needs for its operations . “ my job is to look for efficiencies and that ’ s what i ’ m doing , ” frost told reporters march 12 . “ we will continue to work with the transition society to ensure that they have the funding . … our fundamental priorities ( are ) ensuring that women and children are given an opportunity for a safe place to go in the event they require . ” asked on march 12 if her department has alerted the transition society of this modest funding bump , frost said she “ believes ” the transition home society has been informed . “ i will verify that at my meeting tomorrow , ” she added , which is when frost is due to meet with mcinerney . when the news spoke to mcinerney the morning of march 12 , she said she “ did not know ” what two - per - cent increase in funding frost was talking about or where it was coming from , but confirmed the society has a meeting march 13 to discuss the issue . frost also recently told the news that the society was able to roll funds from previous quarters into the current one — an important issue to consider , as mcinerney has said that the months of january , february and march are the most expensive for the society , due to an uptick in need from the community during that time as well as the associated costs of winter , such as increased heat and hydro usage . however , mcinerney said it ’ s not as simple as rolling those funds over ; according to their funding agreement , the government has the right to “ not give ( us ) the transfer payment ” if the society is “ showing a surplus . ” “ if for some reason all male violence completely stopped ( in the territory ) … and we were carrying a surplus… that would be a reasonable thing to do , ” mcinerney said . even if that were to miraculously occur , the point is moot , she noted , because the society doesn ’ t “ have any money to carry over into the next fiscal year . ” “ we ’ re running a deficit . ” the society has only held on as long as it has because they have been chronically understaffed , she added , largely because the government has been courting the same type of employees it requires and can pay “ $10 an hour more ” than the not - for - profit can . according to the 2019 - 20 territorial budget , taken together , kaushee ’ s place and betty ’ s haven are slated to receive roughly $1 . 5 million , an amount mirroring the current forecast . between the pair , that means about $1 , 221 , 000 has been allotted for the former and roughly $253 , 000 for the latter . when applying the two - per - cent increase to each organization , it evens out to be $24 , 428 for kaushee ’ s place and $5 , 060 for betty ’ s haven . during question period on march 11 , frost said the increase the not - for - profit is getting is “ in excess ” of the upcoming budget . “ we are working closely with the transition society to ensure that we have a better understanding of the pressures and demands they face , as well as making sure that the services we provide across government are meeting the needs and not overlapping unnecessarily , ” she said then . a spokesperson with the department said the two - per - cent increase is not reflected in the budget . “ the 2019 / 20 … budget had to be submitted prior to the determination of the two ( per cent ) increases , ” clarissa wall said . “ rather , in the budget , in the social services section , there is a sum of $250 , 000 to cover the two ( per cent ) increase for the many ngos that are getting it . ” kaushee ’ s place is a 15 - bed facility that provides emergency housing for women and children in the community fleeing domestic violence . the not - for - profit also operates betty ’ s haven , which has 10 transitional housing units , where women and children can stay for up to 18 months , paying 25 per cent of their income up to fair market value . frost told reporters her department doesn ’ t differentiate between the two places — that ’ s up to the overarching not - for - profit . that the budget for the not - for - profit has remained the same is indicative of a “ funding freeze , ” said yukon party finance critic brad cathers , adding that mcinerney and frost are at loggerheads in that there have been two “ entirely different ” narratives . cathers said funding for the not - for - profit has been stuck at roughly $1 . 5 million since 2016 - 2017 . “ the approach that should be taken by government in dealing with ngos who provide valuable services to yukoners is to , first of all , respect them as partners and , secondly , work with them collaboratively to respond to their needs … ” he said . if the liberals , continue to “ ignore ” those needs , the impacts could be severe . “ if the yukon women ’ s transition home is forced to close their doors , it would deprive yukoners of a very important service for women and children fleeing domestic abuse situations , as well as the second stage housing , ” cathers said . “ what is quite disturbing is that the liberal government does not seem to appreciate the importance of this issue . ” during question period on march 12 , frost said a proposed three - year agreement was on the table with the transition home , which would have started in 2017 . a day earlier , also during question period , frost said it was around this time that kaushee ’ s turned down the agreement in favour of an incremental one lasting three months at a time , adding that hammering out a long - term solution would carry on . mcinerney said the organization turned down the offer of a one - year contract from the government at the beginning of this fiscal year and instead were negotiating quarter - to - quarter because they weren ’ t confident they could make it to year end , she said . she has “ no idea ” what three - year agreement frost is referring to , she added . contact julien gignac at julien . gignac@yukon - news . com and lori fox at lori . fox@yukon - news . comkaushee ’ s placeyukon health and social servicesyukon women ’ s transition home society
__label__relevant after the last cop killed himself , all the criminals have to do is hide series : lawless sexual violence in alaskathis article was produced in partnership with the anchorage daily news , a member of the propublica local reporting network . propublica is a nonprofit newsroom that investigates abuses of power . sign up to receive our biggest stories as soon as they ’ re published . russian mission , alaska — one spring day in 2005 , a man in a crisp brown uniform stood before a group created by congress to fix rural alaska ’ s lack of cops . in his soft - spoken way , simeon askoak explained his dilemma . he was the only law enforcement officer in russian mission , a village of 340 people where he was born and raised . he ’ d worked as a village public safety officer for the previous 13 years , and while the state of alaska covered his salary , he lacked equipment , resources and respect . “ it ’ s degrading me , ” askoak said of the constant search for money to pay for the basic necessities of his job . he described how his city government couldn ’ t afford utilities for the police station , so he dug into his own pocket to buy heating oil to warm the jailhouse . when his family of seven could no longer afford the bills , the pipes at the jail froze . soon the water and sewer would be shut off too , he warned . get our top investigations subscribe to the big story newsletter . vpsos in other riverside villages spoke of similar fears . “ we are the first responders , ” askoak said , describing the unique role vpsos play in the state . they bust drunken drivers , bootleggers and drug dealers . they listen to children tell of being molested , stand between abusers and domestic violence victims and pull bodies from the rivers . always unarmed and usually without backup . having told his story , askoak left the meeting and flew home in a rattling bush plane above a tangle of streams and spongy tundra . two days later , he followed a trail to a lagoon 100 yards from his front door and shot himself in the chest . he was 50 years old . a boy found his body shrouded in newly fallen snow . if you or someone you know needs help , here are a few resources : call the national suicide prevention lifeline : 1 - 800 - 273 - 8255text the crisis text line from anywhere in the u . s . to reach a crisis counselor : 741741copline is an international law enforcement officers ’ hotline , answered by trained retired officers . the hotline : 1 - 800 - 267 - 5463 . russian mission hasn ’ t had a permanent , certified police officer since . fourteen years after his death , a generation of children in the alaska native village , including askoak ’ s grandchildren , is growing up in a town left to fend for itself . in a region with the highest rate of homicide and accidental death in alaska , where half of women experience sexual assault or domestic violence , offenders here have learned they can simply hide from visiting state troopers to avoid arrest . others face do - it - yourself justice . not too long ago , a group of residents tackled a man who had been firing a gun in russian mission . they duct - taped him and held him in the jail until the troopers landed . in every meaningful way , the splintered and inequitable system of rural alaska law enforcement described by simeon askoak in 2005 is worse today . an investigation this year by the anchorage daily news and propublica found that one - third of communities now lack public safety officers of any kind . some small cities without a vpso or state trooper resort to hiring criminals as cops . the creators of the vpso program , which is funded by the state government and run by regional native nonprofits , hoped to meet two goals : grow local law enforcement by training and certifying village residents as police , while greatly increasing the number of communities with first responders . the officers were meant to be all - around lifesavers , trained to launch search parties , perform cpr and fight house fires . the daily news and propublica have found that despite heroic efforts by individual officers , the vpso program itself is failing rural alaskans and most alaska villages it was intended to protect . when askoak began working in 1992 , there were more than 100 vpsos deployed across the state . today ? thirty - eight and shrinking . the school in russian mission . the village hasn ’ t had a permanent , certified police officer since 2005 . ( loren holmes / adn ) instead of homegrown hires , the majority of officers are imported , unfamiliar with the regions and cultures they serve ; many have never been to alaska before . what ’ s more , those few remaining vpsos are not necessarily based in the villages where they are needed most . whether a community gets an officer depends on several factors , such as available housing , that have nothing to do with crime rates . near the canadian border , the town of eagle has a mostly non - native population of 80 people and sits beside a state highway . it has a vpso . the village of nunapitchuk , on the other side of the state , is eight times larger with a mostly yup ’ ik population and does not have one . when a man fired his rifle at a family member there in june , troopers had to fly to the village and climb on a boat to catch up with him . despite abysmal retention rates , high overhead costs and disagreements between the state and regional employers on how to manage and fund vpsos , the federal government is doubling down on the program . u . s . attorney general william p . barr in june declared a national “ law enforcement emergency ” in rural alaska , promising $10 . 5 million in emergency funds for “ hiring , equipping and training ” vpsos and other village - based police . ( at the alaska federation of natives convention this month , he announced an additional $42 million in tribal grants and victims assistance . ) alaska native leaders say the aid is welcome and necessary , but they warn that a one - time infusion of money will not fix systemic problems . “ it will do little or nothing to actually move the needle in my view , ” said ethan schutt , the athabascan chief of staff for the alaska native tribal health consortium and one of the commissioners who heard askoak ’ s plea before his death . the old elevation of the holy cross church , constructed around 1851 , sits atop a hill overlooking russian mission . ( loren holmes / adn ) the decline of the vpso program might be less of a crisis if more state troopers protected rural alaska . but our investigation also found half of the state ’ s 236 troopers work as highway patrolmen and are de facto police for suburban , mostly white communities such as the matanuska - susitna borough , home of gov . mike dunleavy and where former gov . sarah palin got her start . while some troopers fly from hub cities to investigate emergencies , only 25 troopers — about 11% — were posted in remote villages full time as of sept . 30 . all these factors result in a basic lack of first responders and emergency services in alaska ’ s most remote communities . alaska federation of natives president julie kitka said this system is unacceptable and must be overhauled with sustained and robust funding , federal partnerships and local control under village and regional leaders . alaska public safety commissioner amanda price said the vpso program in its current form may no longer be the answer . “ at what point do we say maybe this doesn ’ t work ? ” price said in an interview in august . simeon askoak ’ s yup ’ ik ancestors lived in southwest alaska for thousands of years . descended from settlers who crossed on the vast land bridge that stretched between what is now siberia and alaska , the yup ’ ik people hunted seal and beluga along the bering sea coast . more recently , yup ’ ik societies began to make their way from the coast up the yukon river , building settlements and seasonal camps . the river delivered salmon ; hunters stalked caribou in the fall . one such camp became a trading post and later the village now known as russian mission . elders recall growing up here and in nearby camps , attending school in a log cabin lit by kerosene and learning english as a second language . members of the generation after that , askoak ’ s generation , were shipped to boarding schools hundreds miles away where they were punished for speaking their native languages and suffered physical and sometimes sexual abuse . marie askoak , an elder in the yup ’ ik village , learned english as a second language . her nephew was the town ’ s village public safety officer . ( loren holmes / adn ) the oldest woman in russian mission is 90 - year - old marie askoak , simeon ’ s aunt . there was no electricity when she was a girl , marie said . no phones . certainly no police , lawyers or judges that she can recall . marie thought back . wrapped in warm layers of clothes , a lavender qaspeq and department store fleece , her brown eyes searched the room . maybe there were fish and game wardens , she said finally . they began to come and take people away for hunting violations . asked how the community historically handled crimes or disputes before the arrival of the state justice system , marie answered in yup ’ ik . “ people work together at times when things get rough here . there used to be no police officers , no nothing , ” she said through an interpreter . “ but there was a brotherhood and sisterhood . they work together . ” the way the village resolves conflict and fights crime is not so different now . “ if it comes down to it , we have to call alaska state troopers , ” said daniel askoak , the youngest of marie ’ s 10 children . “ but usually when something happens we come together and talk to the person . ” sometimes it takes more than talk . when things get truly dangerous , villagers have a choice : hunker down and wait for troopers to arrive by plane or take matters into their own hands . across alaska , communities that once had certified police thanks to the vpso program now make do with low - paid , untrained police or no law enforcement all . alakanuk , a yup ’ ik village of 728 people at the mouth of the yukon river , had a vpso in town until recently . in january , once he was gone , a man in the village was stabbed in the chest by a family member . the next month , on valentine ’ s day , a 43 - year - old was said to have committed rape , kidnapping and assault , and to have given alcohol to a minor , according to charges filed in state court . in july , a man jumped into a river slough and drowned . the western alaska region that includes alakanuk and russian mission employed about 20 vpsos when simeon askoak testified in 2005 . now four remain among some 48 villages . the southwest alaska village of manokotak once had two vpsos ; today it has none . in 2013 , one of the officers was shot to death while checking on a man who was thought to be suicidal . the need for certified police officers remains as great as ever . a man holding a 1 - month - old child in his arms punched two village elders last fall and had to be restrained by family members of the victims , according to troopers . a shooting followed in july . the month after that , troopers surrounded the house of a man threatening to “ go on a killing spree ” if anyone came inside . russian mission has had a few city - hired village police officers over the years , residents say , but no permanent vpsos since askoak . his absence is felt in a thousand ways . one series of attacks involving a young couple illustrates the difference between a village with a trusted local police officer , and one that must rely on troopers working an hour away . in 2004 , the year before askoak ’ s death , someone called 911 to say that a muscular former basketball star named lester pitka had slammed his 16 - year - old girlfriend ’ s head to the floor . in an affidavit , askoak wrote that he arrived at the scene three minutes later , saw pitka on top of the girl and stopped the beating . other vpsos called askoak “ the sweet talker ” because he convinced people they shouldn ’ t run when facing arrest , his widow said . “ if you do that , it ’ ll just be another addition to your charges , ” he would say . “ he ’ d tell them , ‘i don ’ t want you to do this because i care about you . ’ ” the man he arrested was his nephew . interviewed in a state prison , pitka said by phone that he understood and held no grudges . “ it was never personal with him . he was just doing his job . ” in the years following askoak ’ s death , public records suggest pitka learned he had plenty of time to disappear before troopers could arrive to investigate . in 2007 , a woman called troopers to report that pitka , then her boyfriend , had spit in her face and yanked her hair at the city office . with no police in town , the woman said , she was afraid for her safety and planned to stay with her mother until help arrived . when the trooper landed the next day , pitka was nowhere to be found . “ i searched throughout russian mission . . . but was unable to locate him , ” the trooper wrote in an affidavit filed in state district court . “ i was advised by several witnesses that he was hiding to avoid arrest . ” the trooper handed the victim a pamphlet about domestic violence and flew home . a judge issued a warrant for pitka ’ s arrest , but there was no certified officer to serve it . pitka avoided capture for the next two weeks . russian mission is reachable by plane year - round , by snowmobile in the winter and by boat in the summer . ( loren holmes / adn ) as russian mission grew accustomed to life without a cop of any kind , the attacks by pitka continued . sometimes troopers came within two hours . sometimes not for days . at 3 p . m . on nov . 24 , 2009 , a woman called 911 , screaming . pitka could be heard in the background , troopers wrote . the line went dead . a trooper flew to the village on a chartered plane , landing an hour and 20 minutes after the 911 call . he found the victim crying at the village city hall . “ she stated lester said he was going to beat her up , and if troopers showed up he would hide so he could not be found , ” according to the charges . “ and after that he would beat her up so that he would have a reason to go to jail . ” the following year , pitka yanked the same woman by the hair so hard that a clump came loose the next time she combed . she was seven months pregnant at the time . there is no record of troopers flying to the village until 11 days later . he pleaded guilty to domestic violence assault . in 2012 , pitka pleaded guilty to a felony assault charge after a pregnant woman called for help to say he had put a cigarette out on her cheek . today , pitka is in prison awaiting trial on a new felony domestic violence charge . he is accused of choking a woman in front of her children april 24 in juneau . ( in that case , the woman called 911 and a juneau police officer immediately took him into custody . he has pleaded not guilty . ) pitka declined to talk about specific details of various cases against him , other than to say they were all alcohol related . but he said he felt troopers — and the state ’ s justice system overall — assume alaska native suspects are guilty . “ i ’ d rather have someone like simmy . a vpso , a native , ” pitka said . “ he would want to help somebody rather than put them in jail . ” pitka wouldn ’ t say where he hid , or how , but the village sits along a steep hillside overlooking the curve of the yukon river , with countless islands and trails spreading in every direction for 100 miles . in russian mission and other western alaska villages , residents said the tactic of hiding from troopers to avoid arrest remains common . “ they can run anywhere in the trees back here , or on a boat out to the fish camps , knowing the troopers won ’ t go after them , ” said darlene nickoli , who works at the russian mission tribal office . things were different when simeon askoak was alive , she recalled . “ he knew the places where they go . ” when the russian mission city council talked about finding a vpso for the village in 1992 , they agreed that simeon askoak , kind and careful , would be a good choice . some 80% of the community was related to simeon by blood or marriage , said barbie atchak , simeon ’ s widow . at the meeting he warned the group there would be no favorites . “ it will be my job to make arrests , family or not . ” in 2004 , the daily news interviewed askoak in russian mission for a story about the village ’ s effort to introduce traditional yup ’ ik skills into the classroom . the classes seemed to help fight crime , he said at the time . as teenagers learned to snare marten and skin beaver or build smokehouses to dry strips of salmon the color of tangerines , he noticed fewer kids caused trouble at night . he found himself handing out fewer tickets for underage drinking . “ i ’ ve seen [changes] even in my own boy , ” said askoak , whose son nicephore was in the 10th grade . “ he ’ s looking forward to going to school every day now . before that , i honestly thought he would be dropping out . ” privately , askoak struggled . he worried about money . plus every call for service in the village carried the possibility of angry encounters later at the store , on the hillside trails , in church . he ’ d received death threats . still there was something else . “ he kept asking me if anything happened to me when i was in school , which was the year before we met , ” atchak said . as children both had attended the wrangell institute , a bureau of indian affairs boarding school for village children 5 to 15 years old . in interviews with former students , university of alaska anchorage researchers heard more reports of beatings and sexual abuse at the island institute than at any other school in alaska . some described a “ concentration camp - like atmosphere , ” recalling how larger boys were given razor straps to beat younger boys who were caught singing native songs . in 2005 , the year the study published , simeon began to ask his wife about her time there . “ did anything happen to you in wrangell ? ” no . simeon kept at it . the couple had been married almost 30 years . this subject had never surfaced before and suddenly he wouldn ’ t let it go . finally atchak pressed him . “ what kind of thing are you looking for ? ” “ when i was there , ” simeon began , “ i went to an appointment and at the time there was a male doctor . i got sexually abused at the [school] clinic . ” simeon recently had heard from old classmates , he told his wife . they had been sexually abused too . “ that was about two weeks before he committed suicide , ” atchak said . people living in southwest alaska , the region that includes russian mission and dozens of yup ’ ik villages along the yukon and kuskokwim rivers , kill themselves at a rate three times the national average . alaska native men are particularly at risk . there was a time when atchak thought about suicide too . while growing up in the tlingit village of angoon in southeast alaska , she said , five different men sexually assaulted her on different occasions . she ’ s since been to counseling and volunteers to speak publicly about suicide and sexual abuse in bethel . “ i learned that it wasn ’ t my fault that it happened to me , ” she said . the thing she learned about suicide : there is never a single cause . no one was ever charged with the sexual abuse of simeon as a boy at the boarding school . none of the five men were charged with sexually assaulting his wife when she was a girl . in the village , the rape of a family member went unprosecuted when the two men claimed the encounter was consensual , atchak said . simeon told the family not to take revenge . “ he didn ’ t want anybody to do anything to those guys , ” atchak said . “ [he said] that god will take care of it when they come face to face . ” in russian mission today , villagers say they sometimes have no choice but to take the law into their own hands . basil larson shifted his weight on the runners of a homemade dog sled as eight panting huskies carried him across the frozen yukon river on a thursday in march . the afternoon was silent except for the wind and the dry sound of the sled gliding on snow , like the tearing of paper . basil larson stands in his dog yard in russian mission . ( loren holmes / adn ) the musher parked and set to making breakfast for the team , a stew of fish and moose meat ( the fur still attached ) and warmed it in a steel drum . with no cop in town , residents like larson are sometimes deputized by elders or relatives to handle trouble , he explained . “ if somebody is going nuts in one of my aunties ’ or relatives ’ house and they need some help , i ’ ll stomp on in and straighten ’ em out , ” larson said , mixing the stew with a 6 - foot stick . watching from bare branches , ravens warbled and croaked . “ you just challenge them until their tail goes between their legs , ” he said of people who must be restrained until troopers can fly in . “ try to calm them down and talk them down and use physical force if you have to . ” larson , 35 , grew up here . playful and winking , a bear in overalls . he ’ s had to bring people to the city hall building or the new public safety building , he said . built after simeon askoak ’ s suicide , the two unpainted jail cells are mostly used by visiting troopers . when a reporter asked for a tour in mid - march , it took officials a day to find the key . “ we have a cop shop but no cops , ” larson said . under a state law , mayor sheila minock is the chief of law enforcement for russian mission . a former health aide , she said neighbors like larson are happy to help in a crisis . this spring , a 10 - year - old had to stop his father from choking a woman in his home . the victim fled the village without her belongings , according to a request filed for a domestic violence restraining order . the month after that , a father and his friend were able to restrain a 19 - year - old who tried to drive drunk and had armed himself with a loaded 9 mm handgun . when the same teenager punched his sister in the face in september , bad weather prevented a fairbanks trooper from flying in to investigate for two days . the village would love to have a vpso again to handle these problems , the mayor said . that would require the regional nonprofit employer , association of village council presidents , to recruit , hire and deploy someone to the community . finding anyone willing to lift the burden full time is a challenge , especially following askoak ’ s suicide , which villagers attributed to job strain . his widow said such things are never so simple . barbie atchak doesn ’ t remember any sounds on the morning that her husband shot himself . she had left the house to return a few dvds , and she returned to find simeon gone . maybe he ’ d walked to his sister ’ s house , where the church was holding choir practice . “ i stepped out on the porch and looked around to see if he might have been walking anywhere , ” atchak said . as she strolled toward the village center , someone stopped her . there had been a discovery . no footprints surrounded simeon ’ s body in the fresh snow . troopers investigated and declared it suicide . the alaska department of public safety soon absolved itself . read more lawless sexual abuse runs rampant , public safety resources are scarce , and governor mike dunleavy wants to cut the budget . in an opinion column published in the daily news a month after simeon ’ s death , the commissioner of public safety at the time , bill tandeske , wrote that his troopers concluded the suicide was not related to the vpso program despite simeon ’ s sharp criticism of the program 48 hours before taking his own life . tandeske did not say what that conclusion was based on . “ funding for the vpso program as it is currently operating is adequate . i would like nothing better than to seek additional dollars for the program , but i ’ m not going to do so until we have qualified vpsos to fill the positions , ” he wrote . “ the unfortunate death of simeon askoak leaves one more position to fill . ” like many current and former public safety officials , tandeske now says the program that askoak worked for has morphed into something it was never intended to be , and a course correction is needed . “ ultimately , with the push over time for more law enforcement services , is the vpso program the appropriate platform to build upon ? ” tandeske asked in an interview in september . “ these issues have [been] going round and round for some time . simply throwing more money at it is not the answer . ” when simeon was alive , the family always traveled together . picking berries , hunting , cutting fish . following his death they scattered . atchak moved to bethel and remarried ; her husband is the head of search and rescue for the region . her son began to raise his family in the home she ’ d shared with simeon . nicephore askoak — the boy who simeon said was eager to go to school to learn yup ’ ik hunting skills — is now 31 . on a recent weeknight he returned from a day of trapping , hanging his parka alongside the family rifles and carrying two limp martens in his arms . nicephore askoak , the son of simeon askoak , with his family . ( loren holmes / adn ) he said he hopes people remember his father as a kind man , and he can recall missing him when simeon went away for vpso training . while still in high school , nicephore told a daily news reporter he ’ d grown tired of village life and was thinking of moving . after the suicide he stayed . for a time , he attempted to follow in his father ’ s footsteps . nicephore worked for 18 months as a city police officer , recruited by the russian mission city manager . people expected him to stop violent encounters and investigate felonies as his father had . on the day he was called to a home and discovered the suicide of a friend , he quit for good . asked about his father ’ s death , nicephore said that all these years later he doesn ’ t know what to say about it . after a long pause , he stood from the kitchen table , excusing himself to go prepare for dinner . it ’ d been a long day , he said , and there was still much to do . 
__label__no_relevant cops and robbers january 2 , 2020 indianola police made the following arrests , on december 24 at 8 : 42 p . m . , connie caldwell , 57 , 907 quiver st . , ruleville was arrested and charged with public drunkenness after officers were called to the love ' s truck stop about an unwanted person . on saturday at 2 : 26 a . m . , michelle steadman , 25 , 501 hannah ave . , was arrested and charged with disorderly conduct—disturbing the peace after officers were called to the 500 block of alexander street about an accident . steadman was reportedly arrested for engaging in violent , loud and offensive conduct while officials were attempting to care for the victim . on december 23 at 6 : 29 p . m . , bobby redell lee , 39 , 812 maple st . , moorhead , was arrested and charged with simple domestic violence after officers responded to a fight in progress at kfc . he was reportedly arrested for assaulting his child ' s mother , a 31 - year - old maple street , moorhead woman , by choking her , squeezing her neck and cutting off her air supply . in other calls , on december 23 at 12 : 37 p . m . , a 25 - year - old heron street woman driving a 2012 chevrolet malibu and a 48 - year - old john pittman drive , greenwood man driving a 2016 chevrolet tahoe were involved in an accident near martin ' s pharmacy with damage to both vehicles , but no injuries were reported . on saturday at 2 : 43 p . m . , a 61 - year - old walker street woman said that someone has been cashing her checks and has stolen $229 . on december 24 at 1 : 27 a . m . , a south sunflower county hospital employee called officers to the emergency room regarding a gunshot to a 17 - year - old spoonbill court boy . a 16 - year - old sunflower street , moorhead boy is listed as the suspect . on friday at 1 : 23 p . m . , a 52 - year - old ezell drive man said he lost his black apple iphone 10 . on december 24 at 12 : 23 p . m . , a 51 - year - old easy street man and a 16 - year - old easy street boy driving a 2012 lexus and a 2007 chevrolet tahoe were involved in an accident in the 100 block of easy street . no injuries were reported . on december 24 at 3 : 35 p . m . a 39 - year - old hannah avenue woman said that shots were fired into her home . on december 21 at 1 : 59 a . m . , a 54 - year - old nelson dotson apartments woman said that while she was on curtis street someone hit her in the head with something . on friday at 12 : 52 a . m . , after police were called to the 200 block of wiggins road about a disturbance , a 26 - year - old wiggins road man , a 21 - year - old wiggins road woman and another wiggins road woman said a 28 - year - old patricia drive man assaulted them . on friday at 4 : 07 p . m . , a 26 - year - old hoover street woman said that an 18 - year - old johnson avenue woman , a 20 - year - old jackson street woman , an 18 - year - old mimosa drive woman and a 22 - year - old johnson avenue woman were harassing her and trying to jump on her at the lovelace shopping center . on december 13 at 1 : 03 p . m . , a 26 - year - old sunflower street , belzoni woman , driving a 2016 nissan altima , said that a 50 - year - old slim street man , driving a 2007 toyota , caused $1 , 000 worth of damage to the left side and bumper of her vehicle when it was parked on the shoulder of the road facing west on second street . the man reportedly left the scene , but was found later . on sunday at 5 : 43 p . m . , a walmart employee said a 29 - year - old west washington avenue moorhead man stole three hoverboards valued at $635 . on december 24 at 11 : 48 a . m . , a 67 - year - old north walker street woman said a 31 - year - old short street , greenville woman was trespassing at george ' s lounge in the 200 block of church street . on friday at 8 : 51 p . m . , a 29 - year - old brantley circle man said a 40 - year - old adair avenue man came to his front door and fired two shots . on thursday at 10 : 56 a . m . , a walmart employee said that a 30 - year - old roosevelt street woman stole two 43 - inch hisense flat screen tvs valued at $196 each . one of the sets was reportedly recovered . on sunday at 4 : 28 p . m . , a 59 - year - old curtis street man driving a 2019 gmc yukon reportedly turned too short on cox street and hit a 2008 hyundai owned by a 70 - year - old compress road , inverness woman . on thursday at 7 : 23 a . m . , a love ' s truck stop employee said someone , later identified as a 30 - year - old roosevelt street woman , came into the store and stole several items including two premium bluetooth headphone sets valued at $39 each and a $1 package of pickles . the following persons were booked into the sunflower county jail december 23 to december 30 , on december 23 at 1 : 36 p . m . , george briscoe , 23 , 64 eastmoor circle , moorhead was arrested and charged with forgery and false pretense . on december 24 at 11 : 48 a . m . , walter watson , 62 , 1900 martin luther king boulevard , vicksburg was arrested and charged with no proof of liability insurance and dui ( first offense ) . on december 25 at 10 : 52 a . m . , stedarrish stefon herman , 16 , 603 sunflower st . , moorhead was arrested and charged with manslaughter ( culpable negligence ) . on thursday at 12 : 49 p . m . , kiaira carpenter , 29 , 417 adair ave . , was arrested and charged with shoplifting and possession of drug paraphernalia . on thursday at 2 : 26 p . m . , alicia renee washington , 29 , 516 pollock st . , greenville was arrested and charged with probation violation . on friday at 12 : 26 a . m . , jasmine conrod , 27 , 505 washington st . , moorhead was arrested and charged with displaying a weapon and disturbance of family . on friday at 9 : 15 a . m . , bradley smith , 30 , 1413 holly drive , moorhead was arrested and charged with public drunkenness , trespassing after notice of non - permission , open container law violation and disorderly conduct ( failure to obey officers ) . on saturday at 10 : 20 a . m . , jerry carl brown , 35 , 115 south wilson st . , sunflower was arrested and charged with domestic violence without injuries ( second offense ) 
__label__no_relevant new n . w . t . senator wants to be a voice for people of the territory the new senator for the northwest territories says she comes prepared for the job and she ' s ready to be a voice for people in the territory . " i was very humbled and honoured to be selected for the senate appointment , " said margaret dawn anderson in an interview from ulukhaktok​ on thursday . the prime minister announced the appointment of anderson and three other new senators on wednesday , including yukon senator pat duncan . anderson , 51 , is inuvialuit . she ' s been a long - time public servant with the territorial government , working in justice , and health and social services . she has experience in social work , probation and parole , as well as restorative justice and domestic violence programming " i believe that experience captures all these aspects , especially the social aspects , that affect the people of the northwest territories , " she said . " i ' m hoping to be the voice for the northwest territories to represent the n . w . t . , to speak to issues that are of importance in the northwest territories and in the rest of canada , especially as it pertains to minority groups , indigenous people , women ' s [issues] , issues around social housing , food security . " affecting changemargaret dawn anderson was in ulukhaktok​ at the time of the interview . she was appointed to the senate on wednesday . ( submitted by margaret dawn anderson ) senators examine and revise legislation , investigate national issues , and represent regional , territorial , and minority interests , according to a news release from the prime minister ' s office . " i have worked in many positions over the last 25 years , " she said . " and i ' ve learned that in order to affect change , change often comes through legislation and through being an active participant in enacting that legislation . " anderson recently completed a masters degree in indigenous governance and worked as a policy intern with the inuvialuit regional corporation , participating in self - government negotiations . with these appointments , justin trudeau has named nearly half of the 105 sitting senators . women now represent 47 per cent of the chamber . the number of indigenous senators has doubled and stands at 12 . anderson is looking forward to " speaking out " for people of the n . w . t . in the red chamber on parliament hill . " bringing forward their concerns , looking for solutions and working together to make the n . w . t . a stronger , healthier place for everyone . " 
__label__relevant interim police chief shares update on new sexual assault cases , training , and staff the nome police department ( npd ) saw a 7% increase in calls for service and took 88 cases of reported sexual assaults in 2019 . interim npd chief mike heintzelman says eight of those cases are still open for investigation . some of those could be waiting for additional dna testing or other work . upon completion , heintzelman claims all of those cases are sent to the district attorney . “ we want to make sure that every call for service is not only documented but investigated . we have historical cases numbering in the hundreds that need to be investigated . ” heintzelman admits that under the administration of previous police chiefs , there were cases uncovered that hadn ’ t been properly investigated . those historical cases came to light when former npd chief bob estes did an audit of sexual assault cases going back from 2018 to 2006 . part of making sure the investigation gets done , heintzelman says , is to be more thorough with training and administrative procedures . “ every documentation has a police report that is done , and that is done by the officers themselves . then we have a supervisor on top of that and he makes sure that the appropriate report has been taken . and if it hasn ’ t , at that point the sergeant would get involved with the individual officer . ” nome police officers are now allegedly going through sexual assault response team training with the alaska council on domestic violence and sexual assault . heintzelman confirms that npd officer alex le has already completed strangulation training . but maintaining adequate staffing at npd still remains an issue . the department has recently hired officers but they ’ re new to policing . former investigator wade “ gray ” harrison was promoted to sergeant in december , but his investigative duties still continue for current cases only . npd is looking for grants from the department of justice to assist in hiring and training needs , including a grant to hire a community policing officer , and potentially half a million dollars in discretionary funds from a doj grant for victim advocacy , training , and equipment . while chief heintzelman says he is using his time at npd to make sure things run “ professionally ” and improve morale among the staff , he is only an interim chief . nome is actively hiring for a new police chief to fill the position left vacant by estes , a process that now includes the input of the public safety advisory commission . heintzelman , the active police chief , confirmed that he has submitted his resume for consideration . 
__label__no_relevant some educators concerned over florida virtual school model adopted by alaska as the current school year draws to a close , educators across alaska have been utilizing different forms of distance instruction , including a model based on the florida virtual school . however , for schools in western alaska , knom ’ s joe coleman explains that using that educational method may not be as practical . the state of alaska moved quickly to adopt florida ’ s virtual education model and opened registration for students on march 31st , as approved by governor mike dunleavy ’ s administration . this followed former florida governor , jeb bush ’ s recommendation to alaska commissioner of education dr . michael johnson . their decision was met with mixed responses . “ commissioner johnson wanted to be able to offer options basically that would be free of charge for schools and for families… ” – tammy vanwyhetammy vanwyhe , division director for innovation and education excellence at the department of education and early development , explains some of the benefits of the virtual school model . “ there are a lot of different statewide correspondence programs in the state of alaska , but they all require enrollment , so a student has to basically unenroll from the local school to enroll in one of the correspondence programs . ” – tammy vanwyhethe florida virtual school model would not require that students leave their current schools to enroll in this one . while there can be benefits for certain alaska students , there is the worry that this model won ’ t be beneficial for rural schools off the road system . nome - beltz social studies teacher aaron blankenship , who spent some time in online school himself , sees some positive uses for it . “ there ’ s a subset of students who work really well self - paced , on their own , and this model of education can be really good for them if it ’ s rigorous , if they ’ re provided the support and accommodation they need , if the learning is developed to them . ” – aaron blankenshiphowever , blankenship also has concerns with the speed in which alaska ’ s newest virtual option is being implemented . “ the problem is though , that takes a lot of development . as teachers right now are finding out , rebuilding your curriculum isn ’ t something that happens in a week and it ’ s not something that happens in a month . ” – aaron blankenshiphe isn ’ t alone . nome public schools superintendent jamie burgess has her own concerns about nome students switching to a virtual school model and losing cultural context . “ one of the really key things for our kids to be successful here , i really believe , is that the curriculum truly has to be relevant to them . and [in] most of these courses , there ’ s no personalization , there ’ s no consideration of cultural needs and relevance to our community . ” – jamie burgessinstead , superintendent burgess has an alternative she would prefer to use . “ i think that the better solution for our kids , for online learning , would be for us to have the opportunity to develop our own content and our own teachers with expertise in online learning . ” – jamie burgessconcerns over the virtual school model are not limited to just the furthest reaches of the last frontier either . association of alaska school boards‘ executive director , norman wooten , says that aasb and the department of education and early development ( deed ) have been in constant contact about this topic . there is still a cultural concern statewide regarding the virtual school model from florida . “ i think that we have the capacity from a number of school districts in the state of alaska to offer the same program that is more culturally relevant to the kids in alaska through a virtual or a homeschool distance - delivery model , for those parents who choose that , and for those schools who choose to supplement their face to face teaching with virtual . ” – norman wootentammy vanwyhe assures alaska - based educators that the use of teachers from the florida virtual school model is just a temporary measure and no alaskan jobs are at stake . “ that ’ s just for the first phase – we ’ re calling them the ‘covid classes , ’ so these courses that basically cover the last nine weeks of the school year , and were meant to help fill in the gaps and provide resources to educators[…] ” – tammy vanwyhethis model can , however , help students additionally maintain some level of normalcy in their educational tract . students can potentially use this as a way to minimize their remedial needs . while the method for educating during the next school year is unknown , deed plans to have alaskan students fully taught by alaskan teachers in the fall of the 2020 - 2021 school year . the department also notes that utilizing this virtual school program is optional , citing concerns for feasibility in schools in the western half of the state . here ’ s nome ’ s superintendent burgess : “ i think if we look ahead to next year there might be some teachers that have an interest in developing those skills and maybe look at exploring ‘what can we do ? ’ there ’ s a lot of things we can do with the platform that we have available if we feel that there is a need or a desire for some students to look at more fully online classes . ” – jamie burgesschoosing to not opt into the virtual school model will not negatively impact state funding for nome public schools nor will there be state - instituted consequences . school districts and families have full autonomy to choose the distance delivery model they believe will be most effective going forward . based on knom ’ s conversations with various educators for this story , there seems to be potential confusion over enrollment . while other correspondence programs require students to un - enroll in their current schools to enroll in a virtual model , the florida model can be used by a student in conjunction with their enrollment in a local , physical school . 
__label__relevant vision wanda smith ' s column from this week ' s issue of the moose jaw expressit is hard to believe we ’ ve been in this lockdown for over two months . what started as two weeks has gone much longer than was initially stated . the days slip into each other and we find ourselves wondering what day it really is . . . it feels we skipped right from march into may and missed april altogether ! without any outside responsibilities aside from work ( if you have work ) , it has been difficult to keep track of time . i am thankful spring has sprung so that we can spend time outdoors : the farmers are seeding , the ranchers are calving , the road crews are working , and we are preparing our gardens and yards for the summer months . i am truly thankful we have more opportunity to enjoy the outdoors during this awful situation . we were never made to be holed up in our homes without the ability to join others in fellowship over food , celebrating and playing sports , joining in communion with people of faith or educating students in large groups . there are many dangers that come out of a lockdown such as we are experiencing that can be seen as increased mental health issues , suicides , increase in domestic violence , outbursts of wrath , criminal activity and so on . even for those who have led a fairly quiet and peaceable life , many are struggling with depression , anxiety , frustration , and angst . as i observe this , i see one way ( among several ways ) we can help to manage these debilitating emotional lash outs . the word of god says “ without a vision people perish . ” we need to look for a positive perspective . i see this playing out in all our lives , presently . i see that there is a temptation to live with a lack of motivation , apathy , procrastination , laziness or an attitude of not caring . but , if we can shift our perspective . . . and gain a heavenly perspective , we will be able to wake up , get up and show up in life ! “ arise , shine , for your light has come and the glory of the lord is risen upon you . ” dear readers , let ’ s ask god for fresh vision ! you may ask . . . vision for what ? to that i say , we need to ask for vision for our days ahead . first of all , for each day . . . and then for the season we are in . . . and then for the future . i have started a to - do list for our home , tackling one project at a time . the list has become quite long and somewhat overwhelming but if i attempt one job at a time , it doesn ’ t take long to see some improvement . paint goes a long way to make something look better . change your furniture placement . purge your closets or drawers . clean out your garage . think of others around you in your neighborhood that may need their lawn raked or their bushes trimmed . offer to help in a way that is simple for you . make some phone calls . a distant friend contacted me through text message this morning and it was just nice to connect and update each other on our families and lives . start writing that book you ’ ve thought about many times . organize your photos and document them . what do you have in your hand to do ? whatever it is may seem small and insignificant but you will begin to see those small changes cultivate a desire to keep moving forward . it brings a synergy and you ’ ll find yourself building on what you have begun . take one step forward . find a new , fresh vision for your house , your yard , your heart , and your family . see god take the little and multiply it ! the views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the author , and do not necessarily reflect the position of this publication . 
__label__no_relevant full text : 2020 b . c . speech from the throne speech from the throneher honour the honourable janet austin , obclieutenant governor at the opening of the fifth session , forty - first parliament of the province of british columbiafebruary 11 , 2020 . ________________________________________we begin by acknowledging the lekwungen peoples , the songhees and esquimalt first nations , upon whose traditional territories we are gathered today . as we open the fifth session of the 41st parliament , we pause to remember the british columbians we have lost in the past year . at least 57 canadians perished on ukrainian international airlines flight 752 in iran on january 8 . fifteen of them called b . c . home . our thoughts are with their families and the iranian - canadian community , who are coping with tremendous loss . we recognize appointed and elected officials who served british columbians and this legislature : conflict of interest commissioner paul fraser , qc ; the honourable ted hughes ; former mlas gillian trumper and norman jacobsen . we thank those who stepped forward to serve at the local level : oak bay mayor nils jensen , and vancouver councillors may brown and b . c . lee . we honour the public servants who passed away this year , including forester peter fuglem , bc parks employee micah messent , bc mail employee martin payne , and conservationist al martin . we are grateful to the people who shaped b . c . arts and culture : writer wayson choy , actor godfrey gao , singer john mann , coast salish artist gus modeste , and painter gordon smith . we recognize leaders in sport : soccer player brandon bassi , mountain biker jordie lunn , and basketball player and olympian eli pasquale . and indigenous leaders and elders : former shíshálh chief stan dixon , dr . frank william maloway , oscar mercer , and george saddleman . these british columbians inspired us with their achievements and honoured us with their friendship . we are grateful to have known them . * * * british columbia is a province with limitless potential . but for a long time , many people have been feeling stuck . the benefits of b . c . ' s economy were not fairly shared . tax breaks went to the people at the top , while life became more expensive for everyone else . at the same time , improvements to health care were delayed . schools were closed or overcrowded . wages didn ' t grow . and opportunity seemed increasingly out of reach . for many british columbians , their future in this province was in question . young people weren ' t sure they could stay in the communities where they grew up . families wondered how long they could hang on . and too many people felt that no matter how hard they worked , they were falling behind . two and a half years ago , government set out to change this . supported by the confidence and supply agreement with the bc green party caucus , this government started making different choices . it started putting people first again . in its first 100 days , government took big money out of politics , toughened lobbying rules , and set the terms for a referendum on electoral reform . in the first 100 days , government raised taxes on the top 2% and used the revenues to fund the schools , hospitals and public services people needed . in the first 100 days , government raised the minimum wage , removed unfair bridge tolls , lifted income assistance and disability rates , and reduced interest on student loans . and in the first 100 days , government eliminated fees for adult basic education and english language learning , and made post - secondary education for former kids - in - care tuition free . in its first year , government rolled up its sleeves and took on the bigger problems – problems that were years in the making . this government brought forward a housing plan to increase supply , curb demand , and crack down on speculation and fraud . and a universal child care plan , to provide affordable , quality care to every family that needs it . in its first year , government got to work on a climate action plan to reduce emissions and create jobs and opportunities for people . and in its first year , government took the first steps toward meaningful reconciliation with indigenous peoples . government did all of these things because british columbians deserve security , stability , and opportunity . they deserve to be confident in their future . to get there , people deserve a government that works as hard as they do . a government that shares their priorities and is working to make life better . after two and a half years , your government ' s choices are leading to progress for people . as british columbians greet this new day , and a new decade , they are starting to move forward . ________________________________________progress for peopletoday , more british columbians are waking up with a safe and secure roof over their heads . thousands of people who were homeless now have supportive housing and the chance at a fresh start . renters have more rights and protections , and annual rent increases have been held down to the rate of inflation . empty homes are turning into housing for people . today , when british columbians check their mail , they are relieved to no longer receive an msp bill , because government has eliminated this tax . starting in october , they can expect a new piece of mail , with a child opportunity benefit for families that need it most . and when they review their bank statements , many families have more money left at the end of the month than they did three years ago . as british columbians open their front door , they can see progress taking root . new child care spaces are opening in their neighbourhoods . this government has funded more than 10 , 000 new spaces throughout the province . as the morning school bell rings , thousands of b . c . parents are dropping off their children at new and safe schools . students are learning in the smallest average class sizes in a generation , and they are succeeding at an unprecedented rate . with the support of b . c . ' s dedicated and professional teachers and support staff , nearly 90% of b . c . students are completing secondary school , including almost 70% of indigenous students , the highest rate in b . c . history . as they commute to school and work , british columbians have more ways to get around . there are more buses , skytrain cars , rapid transit , and active transportation options than ever before . more drivers are choosing electric vehicles and taking advantage of government rebates that make clean options more affordable . on their commutes , british columbians pass by building sites for new and upgraded hospitals . in less than three years , this government has moved forward on 13 hospital projects . in these facilities , there are more surgeries and diagnostic tests for waiting patients . and thanks to the feedbc program , more people in our hospitals are eating healthy , nutritious , local b . c . food . as they move through their communities , british columbians will notice infrastructure projects underway , like the pattullo bridge replacement , the highway 1 expansion , and the final phase of the kicking horse canyon project . these projects are being built with community benefit agreements , which provide good jobs for local people and apprenticeship opportunities for women , indigenous peoples and groups under - represented in the trades . today , british columbians live in a province that provides better support for the most vulnerable . b . c . has a homelessness action plan , and a strategy to lift people and families out of poverty . there is a pathway to hope for mental health , with more supports for children , youth and families to set them up for a lifetime of health and wellness . with changes to child welfare rules , government is helping more families stay together . b . c . has the lowest number of children and youth in care in 30 years . and more youth from care than ever before are getting educational , cost of living , and other supports through agreements with young adults . today , british columbians have more opportunities to participate in recreation , sport , arts and culture . with more funding for the bc arts council , artists and creators have more support to inspire others . in the future , people will be able to visit renewed cultural institutions , like the royal bc museum and the vancouver art gallery , as well as a new chinese canadian museum . today , british columbians are more connected , to their communities and each other . coastal communities have had ferry service restored , and fares have been frozen or reduced . thousands more families in remote , rural , and indigenous communities have high - speed internet , creating opportunities for business and economic growth . bc bus north is giving people a safe , affordable option to get around northern regions of the province . and despite global headwinds , british columbians are enjoying the benefits of a strong and resilient economy . wages have gone up . unemployment is the lowest in canada , and has been for two years running . b . c . leads the country in economic growth . all the while , this government has delivered balanced budgets , and maintained b . c . ' s triple - a credit rating . * * * at home , in our communities , and throughout our province , people are starting to make progress . they are more able to face the challenges ahead , because they know they aren ' t alone . they have a government that is a partner in their future . it ' s been two and a half years , but the hard work has only just begun . ________________________________________making life more affordableyears of rising costs , and no relief , left many people falling behind . this government has done a lot to help families save money . but costs are still too high , and british columbians deserve the chance to get ahead . this government is working hard to make everyday life a little easier . more housing for peoplegovernment has been working hard to fix the housing crisis . for too long , speculators treated b . c . real estate like a stock market , and criminals used it as a place to store dirty money . this government ' s speculation and vacancy tax is turning empty homes into housing . and a public inquiry into money laundering will make sure b . c . ' s economy is working for people , not organized crime . this government is building housing for people of all incomes , from people experiencing homelessness to middle - income families . every week , new projects are being funded , builders are breaking ground , and people are moving into safe and secure homes . non - profit partnerships , government - funded , and private - sector projects are creating tens of thousands of new , affordable homes for people of all ages and stages of life . all told , this government ' s plan will see 114 , 000 new homes built over 10 years . as this work continues , government is taking additional steps to make sure every british columbian has a safe , affordable home . this government is working with municipalities to speed up approvals and encourage them to make full use of rental zoning . and this year , government will act on the recommendations of the rental housing task force , to provide more security for renters , and relieve them of the burden of fighting unfair or illegal renovictions on their own . cleaning up icbcwhile housing is every family ' s first affordability challenge , car insurance is a close second . b . c . drivers are simply paying too much . premiums soared after years of mismanagement and neglect that saw hundreds of millions taken out of icbc . by 2017 , the corporation was nearly insolvent and racking up billion - dollar deficits . last year , this government introduced major reforms to get icbc out of the red . these first steps have been effective . the corporation is on more stable fiscal footing , and there will be no increase to basic rates this year . but insurance rates are still far too expensive . that is why this government is transforming icbc . it is taking costly legal fees out of the system , and giving people enhanced coverage for medical care . next year , when drivers renew , they can expect insurance rates to go down by an average of 20% . lower rates , the care you need , and more fairness and accountability . that ' s what a better icbc is all about . fair pricing for consumersthis government is taking steps to stop big companies from gouging consumers . legislation passed last year will give b . c . drivers more information about how companies set gasoline prices . this spring , new rules for live - event ticket sales will come into force , stopping ticket bots in their tracks and making costs more transparent . and later this month , b . c . government representatives will travel to ottawa to fight for more affordable cellphone plan options and transparency in billing . lifting up wagesa life that ' s more affordable is one where people earn a fair wage . in june 2020 , b . c . ' s minimum wage will go up to $14 . 60 an hour . by 2021 , it will reach $15 . 20 an hour , fulfilling this government ' s commitment to b . c . ' s lowest - paid workers . this year , government will once again lift earnings exemptions for people on disability and income assistance , allowing people to earn more money and support them in re - entering the workforce . last year , this government passed legislation giving workers fleeing domestic violence up to 10 days of unpaid job - protected leave . this year , b . c . is taking the next step and providing these workers with paid leave , for up to five days . and this spring , government will take steps to provide more support to workers who have suffered job - related sickness or injury . creating affordable child caretwo years ago , this government put b . c . on the path to universal child care . tens of thousands of families are already feeling the benefits . fee reductions and the affordable child care benefit have put more money back in families ' pockets . and parents are bringing their skills back into the workforce , benefiting local business and the economy . there is more work to do to help british columbians find quality child care they can afford . government continues to train more early childhood educators , to make sure b . c . has the professional , caring and skilled child care workers it needs . those early childhood educators are now earning higher wages , with an additional $1 - per - hour increase coming april 1 for those working in licensed care . as work on universal child care continues , this government will work to increase the number of spaces for school - aged children , and partner with school districts to create more before - and after - school care . ________________________________________better public servicesyears of minimal increases to public services left communities frustrated , and people without the supports they needed . those years represent a lost opportunity for people , businesses and economic growth . this government is working hard to restore public services and make opportunities available to everyone . investing in educationthis government is speeding up investments in quality public education . since july 2017 , this government has funded more than 80 school capital projects , each one representing a newer , better , or safer school for b . c . students . in the coming year , british columbians will see even more seismic upgrades , school replacements , and land purchases for future schools . instead of falling behind , school districts are now looking ahead , and planning for new schools in growing communities . inside these new schools , students have more learning support , with 4 , 200 new teachers , almost 2 , 000 new education assistants , 700 new special education teachers , and nearly 200 teacher - psychologists and counsellors . their professional , skilled , and caring support is crucial to student success . teachers , parents , and school trustees have long advocated for better supports for b . c . students that need it most . this year , for the first time , children and youth in care will be recognized with a new funding supplement . and government will expand priority funding to children with mental - health challenges , and children from low - income families . this means that schools can provide more supports like trauma counselling , school breakfast or lunch programs , tutoring , and mentoring . and government will continue to provide dedicated funding supports for indigenous learners . opening doors to post - secondarywhen people have the opportunity to learn a new skill or trade , it benefits them , their families , and our province as a whole . more than 1 , 100 former youth in care are getting a post - secondary education tuition - free . and more than 20 , 000 people have upgraded their skills in tuition - free adult basic education and english language learning . hundreds of new training spaces in computer science , technology , engineering , and the skilled trades are helping people hone their skills and find a job that fits . and more funding for employment programs , co - ops and work - integrated learning opportunities are helping young people get a better start . this government ' s work to open the doors of opportunity to students and people continuing their learning isn ' t done . budget 2019 eliminated interest on all b . c . student loans , and budget 2020 will help people starting post - secondary , skills training and certificate programs . better health carethis government is making big investments in public health care , and with it , the health of every british columbian . since july 2017 , this government has moved forward on 13 hospital projects , and opened 12 urgent and primary care centres . five hip and knee replacement programs are up and running , with 14 more on the way . in the first year of its diagnostic strategy , government exceeded its targets for mri exams , with nearly 44 , 000 more performed throughout b . c . compared to 2017 - 18 . by purchasing more mri machines , and running existing ones longer , b . c . has improved wait times in all regions . this year , b . c . will complete even more , giving people the diagnostic care they ' ve been waiting for . this government is also making sure our elderly get the dignified care they deserve . last year , b . c . added funding for more than one million hours of direct care for seniors in long - term care homes . as a result , b . c . has now doubled the number of facilities that meet or exceed the target of 3 . 36 hours of direct care per resident day . and the number of long - term care homes that provided fewer than 2 . 9 hours per resident day has dropped from 75 to four . none of this would be possible without the skilled and dedicated health - care professionals that care for people every day . this government is doing everything it can to recruit more doctors , nurses , nurse practitioners , and other health - care professionals . government is opening up training seats for health - care assistants , specialty nurses , and health - care specialist positions . and government is treating workers fairly , by honouring collective agreements and protecting successorship rights . your government will keep working hard to deliver faster , better health care for people , closer to home . supporting mental healthpeople in b . c . expect an urgent and comprehensive response to the overdose crisis – one that includes prevention , enforcement , harm reduction , and treatment and recovery . this government ' s efforts are making a difference . since the crisis began , at least 4 , 700 deaths have been averted , thanks to expanded harm reduction and treatment options . your government is working hard to create a seamless system of mental health and addictions care , where no one gets left behind . the pathway to hope mental health roadmap includes early intervention and prevention for children and youth , in schools , homes and communities . youth and their families can access wraparound care at community foundry centres , with eight already open and 11 on the way . more people in b . c . can access low - or no - cost programs for mental health and addictions challenges . and more indigenous communities are planning , designing and delivering services based on their own mental health priorities . safer communitiesbritish columbians deserve to feel safe in the communities they call home . this government is acting to fight crime and gangs . government has expanded education and prevention programs , to help stop kids from entering gang life . this spring , new legislation will give police more tools to block the use of illegal firearms and ban guns from schools , colleges , universities , and hospitals . for years , policing resources have not kept up with growth in rural b . c . this year , government will increase support to police services and first nations policing for rural communities . a more inclusive provincefeeling safe in your community is also about having a place in your community . at a time when hate and intolerance is on the rise , this government is working to keep people safe and protect the diversity that makes b . c . strong . the lived experience of women , people of colour , gender - diverse people , and people with disabilities tells us we have more work to do to build a more inclusive province . that ' s why this government renewed the human rights commission , and created a provincewide anti - racism network to combat hate and prejudice . it ' s why this government pursues gender equity , and increased funding to organizations that help women and children leaving violence . it ' s why this government is working with partners to make communities more accessible to people of all abilities . it ' s why this government supports sogi initiatives in b . c . schools , and the united way period promise for free menstrual products in school washrooms . everyone has a place in this province – she , he , and they . it is not enough to believe in these values . governments must act on them . this government will continue the work to advance equality , diversity , human rights , and mutual respect . because a better b . c . is one where everyone is included and free to be who they are . ________________________________________reconciliation with indigenous peoplesreconciliation with indigenous peoples is a matter of rights , respect , and justice . it is a journey we are on together . and it must last for generations . for two and a half years , this government has worked in partnership with indigenous peoples to make progress on reconciliation . it has made major investments in indigenous priorities like language revitalization , funding for aboriginal friendship centres , culturally appropriate health care and mental - health supports , and indigenous housing on - and off - reserve . last year , b . c . transferred the first two years of funding , as part of a commitment that will see $3 billion in provincial gaming revenues shared with first nations over 25 years . this means first nations can invest in self - government , cultural revitalization , and services that make life better for families . reconciliation is rooted in the recognition of indigenous rights as human rights . this government committed to implementing the united nations declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples . many said it could not be done . but this government challenged the status quo . it partnered with the first nations leadership council to write a new law . and b . c . made history when this legislature unanimously endorsed the declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples act . it was a proud moment in this province ' s history . but the work has only just begun . the next step is an action plan , which government will develop in collaboration with indigenous peoples . ________________________________________a strong , sustainable economya strong economy cannot be built on a foundation of rampant real estate speculation . it cannot be won in a race to the bottom , with minimum standards and fewer workplace protections . and it cannot be gained through windfall profits earned on the backs of low - wage workers . instead , a strong economy comes from good - paying jobs that raise family incomes and everyone ' s standard of living . it is built with quality public services as a cornerstone ; services that help b . c . grow , attract , and keep its skilled workforce . a strong economy is rooted in competitiveness , a necessary ingredient for success in today ' s global marketplace . and it is in harmony with government ' s commitments to fight climate change and achieve meaningful reconciliation with indigenous peoples . these are the values that guide this government ' s actions to build a sustainable economy that puts people first . the challenges we face – from worsening weather , to global economic headwinds – make this work more urgent than ever . as this government charts a new course to a low - carbon economy , powered by cleanbc , british columbians can rest assured : not only will we weather these storms , we will create the conditions for people and industry to thrive . innovation and climate actioncleanbc is a critical part of this government ' s strategy to grow a sustainable economy with good jobs and opportunities for people . it ' s been one year since cleanbc was launched , and british columbians are starting to see that the way to a cleaner , better future is by innovating and working together . people have cleaner options for getting around , heating our homes , and fuelling industry . and more communities are investing in clean energy and green building projects . b . c . ' s world - leading clean - tech and renewable - energy industries will help our province reduce emissions and protect our clean air , water , and land . thanks to the confidence and supply agreement , b . c . ' s first innovation commissioner has helped advance tech and innovation , by building relationships and helping companies access talent and capital . and the emerging economy task force will help b . c . stay at the forefront of emerging economic developments and address the challenges and opportunities ahead . your government is looking at ways to build on the successes of both of these initiatives . as cleanbc enters its second year , government will bring people together to fight pollution , reduce emissions and build a sustainable , innovative , and prosperous economy . this year , government will release a plastics action plan to reduce plastic pollution and keep it out of b . c . ' s landfills and waterways . also this year , a climate adaptation strategy will make sure b . c . communities are ready for changes in weather and other climate impacts . this government will work with business to promote b . c . industries as competitive suppliers of low - carbon products . by positioning b . c . as a supplier of choice , this government will grow markets for b . c . products while reducing global emissions . in export markets where global players have not adopted carbon pricing , b . c . ' s energy - intensive industries need to stay competitive . government and business are partnering to support these industries , so that we can grow b . c . jobs while meeting our emission targets across all sectors . as the only g7 nation with free - trade access to the united states , europe and asia pacific , canada – and especially british columbia – has unique trade and investment opportunities around the world . this government ' s commitment to reduce carbon emissions can be a competitive advantage throughout b . c . ' s trade and investment network . as work gets underway on the lng canada project – the largest private - sector investment in canadian history – this government is seeking ways to reduce emissions overall . work continues on electrification initiatives to reduce emissions from b . c . ' s gas fields , in partnership with the federal government . b . c . and washington state are partnering on a clean grid initiative to use clean , affordable energy to power the region ' s economy . and government is supporting development of lng bunkering in b . c . ports , reducing greenhouse gas emissions here and everywhere lng - powered vessels operate . strength in natural resourcesthe promise of new economic opportunities extends to b . c . ' s natural resources . mining , forestry , agriculture , and energy continue to generate good jobs for people and financial returns to government . these industries can play a leading role in supporting innovation that helps b . c . achieve its economic , climate , and reconciliation goals . this government ' s food security task force has proposed new ways to use technology to maximize b . c . ' s rich agricultural land – wisely preserved nearly 50 years ago – so we can produce more food and grow new business opportunities . from the copper needed for electric cars , to the metallurgical coal that makes wind turbines , the world needs b . c . minerals and metals . this government is working to keep mining competitive and create good jobs , by making mineral exploration tax credits permanent and permitting more efficient . as a generator of clean hydroelectricity , bc hydro is helping us switch to renewable energy , in b . c . and in global markets . and to fuel the transformation underway in forestry , this government has directed that all future public infrastructure projects be built with b . c . engineered wood wherever possible . the transition from high volume to high value has been difficult for forest workers and their communities . a wave of mill closures and curtailments driven by changes in global markets , reduced supply , wildfire losses and the mountain pine beetle , has left many people hurting . it could be argued that the previous government did not take adequate steps to address the changes it well knew were coming . this has made the current situation even more difficult for people today . this government ' s first priority is helping communities that are struggling . there are job placement and skills training opportunities for workers , bridge loans for logging contractors on the coast , and grants for hard - hit communities . as government addresses the needs of workers and communities , it is also taking the first steps in fixing systemic issues the previous government ignored . in the interior , government is bringing together forest companies , workers , local governments and first nations to find local solutions that help the industry stay competitive and maximize available resources . and on the coast , a revitalization strategy will see fewer logs shipped offshore , and better use of waste wood . there is no overnight fix for problems created by years of neglect . these solutions will help forestry – a foundational b . c . industry – get back on the right track . planning for growththe good jobs and opportunities of a sustainable economy should be available to everyone , in every community . this government is promoting quality economic growth that increases wages , generates revenues to fund public services , and shares the benefits of growth broadly throughout the province . by promoting a strong , sustainable tourism sector , this government is offering visitors authentic and unforgettable experiences that drive economic growth in all regions . by expanding high - speed internet in nearly 500 rural , remote , and indigenous communities since july 2017 , this government is closing the digital divide and creating opportunities for growth . by supporting the innovation corridor in the fraser valley , and creating a new quantum computing institute at sfu surrey , this government is helping distribute the benefits of a sustainable economy throughout the lower mainland . for people in the valley , that means more opportunities for a good - paying job , more options for housing , a shorter commute , and more time with family . b . c . will add one million people to its population over the next 10 years , putting pressure on b . c . ' s transportation and trade corridors . british columbians are already spending too much time in gridlock . this government is getting people moving . government ' s partnerships with local governments means that work is already underway on a long - term vision for transit and transportation in the lower mainland . british columbians can look forward to more options like rapid transit , hov lanes and commuter rail out to the fraser valley , and high - speed rail connections with our neighbours to the south . not all of this growth is happening in the lower mainland . this government is taking an all - of - b . c . approach with an integrated transportation plan to reduce congestion , and build for trade and business growth . to keep people and goods moving , government is extending its transportation capital plan from three years to five years . this change will allow for better planning of major projects like the george massey crossing . * * * british columbians are proud of this province , our people and our way of life . they love where they live , and they want to stay . as you begin a new legislative session , this government calls on you to keep the people of b . c . at the centre of your work . their future – our future – depends on the choices we make . this government will continue the work it started two and a half years ago to make life better for people . with more child care , more housing , and good jobs with high wages . with affordable , livable communities , resilient in the face of climate change . where all indigenous peoples are full partners in shaping our province ' s future . a province full of people who are skilled , confident and ready for the road ahead . a place of hope and opportunity . a stronger province – for everyone . 
__label__no_relevant alberta government may distribute up to $110m in isolation cash an abrupt end to applications for provincial emergency isolation payments has left some albertans frustrated and frantic . alberta premier jason kenney said monday an estimated 90 , 000 people have or will receive a $1 , 146 emergency cash payment after self - isolation left them without pay . calgary electrician kurt perkins is unlikely to be one of them . he said he almost lost his mind on monday morning when he saw applications for the emergency payments were closed . perkins was preparing to spend another day dialling into jammed government phone lines for technical help with the online application process . the website wouldn ' t recognize his id . he said it was unfair of the government to offer up emergency funds it couldn ' t fully deliver , and cruel to pull them away when they knew there were technical problems . " i call it a lottery because it was nothing other than that , " perkins said monday . " intermittently , it would work , and then it wouldn ' t . " the funds were disbursed based on luck , not need , he said . perkins likely qualifies for the federal canadian emergency response benefit ( cerb ) program , which began accepting some applications monday morning . it offers $2 , 000 a month for four months for people who stopped working due to the pandemic , and includes contractors and freelancers . however , application dates are staggered by birth month to prevent the online system from becoming overwhelmed . perkins ' birthday is in december , so he won ' t be able to apply until thursday . meanwhile , he ' s falling further behind on his payments , he said . ' it ' s complete stress ' tannessia boehner is under similar financial strain . she went into isolation last month when she was ill with a chest infection . she works as a chef and a manager at an edmonton domestic violence shelter and does not qualify for sick pay . she also gained custody of her nephew last week . he has asthma and needs to be isolated during the coronavirus pandemic . she started applying for provincial isolation funds on march 25 , the day applications opened . when the website wouldn ' t recognize her id , she was also left redialing busy phone lines . boehner tried setting alarms for 3 a . m . , thinking she might get a call through when most people were sleeping . it didn ' t work . " i ' m absolutely devastated and distraught and now suffering panic attacks , " she said monday . " i worked so hard to gain custody of my one - year - old nephew . this is supposed to be the happiest time of my life . " she said she can ' t apply for the federal aid program without notifying the federal government of a recent address change — and no one is answering those calls , either . premier says volume of online applications ' uncharted territory ' ndp labour critic christina gray said monday the government mishandled the isolation payments and should take steps to help albertans who are in dire financial situations without aid . based on industry layoff reports , she surmised there are thousands more people who should have qualified for emergency financial help . kenney said one lesson from the covid - 19 pandemic is that alberta will need a provincial government website that can handle tens of thousands of concurrent online application form submissions . " frankly , no governments have been through this kind of demand for social payments since , well , in decades - - since we ' ve had online technology . so , this is uncharted territory , " kenney said monday . although the government had guessed it would need $50 million for the program , the final total payout is likely between $106 million and $110 million , kenney said . " the program turned out to be twice as large and twice as generous as anticipated . i regret for people that didn ' t get through the system — that system simply wasn ' t set up to come with those demands , " he said . the labour ministry is currently reviewing outstanding applications from people who could only apply after their isolation period ended , said adrienne south , press secretary to labour minister jason copping , on monday . it means some people may still receive payments , she said . when that process is complete , she anticipates about 90 per cent of people who managed to submit an application for the payment will be approved . some applicants were deemed ineligible . the emergency cash injection was supposed to be a temporary measure to help albertans cover immediate expenses while many waited for the launch of cerb . 
__label__no_relevant ‘go back to the old way : ’ first nations return to land during covid - 19 pandemic – nelson star leaders are encouraging their communities to hunt and fish , and to gather berries and traditional medicinesdene national chief norman yakeleya , shown in a handout photo , says he called on people to return to the land to find food and healing during the covid - 19 pandemic . he says the blood of the dene people is in the land . the canadian press / hofirst nations leaders who have called on their communities to return to the land to find food during the covid - 19 pandemic are also seeing people reconnect with their traditions . “ the blood of the dene is in the land , ” said dene national chief norman yakeleya in yellowknife . “ the land loves the dene people and we in turn love the land . ” when the novel coronavirus started spreading across the country , yakeleya encouraged his members to hunt and fish , and to gather berries and traditional medicines . there have been just five confirmed cases in the northwest territories , but fear of the illness spreading in indigenous communities is high , he said . elders still speak about the 1928 flu epidemic that decimated the region , he said . that summer , a hudson ’ s bay co . supply ship sailed down the mackenzie river and spread a virulent strain of influenza to dene and inuvialuit along the route . it ’ s estimated to have killed up to 15 per cent of the indigenous population of the northwest territories . yakeleya recalls his grandmother telling him stories of burying up to 15 bodies a day . what helped the communities heal was reconnecting with the land , and the chief said he ’ s seeing that again now . dene in fort good hope and fort mcpherson have harvested caribou and shared with those unable to hunt , the elderly and the immunocompromised . “ our value as dene , the sharing , has come back and is still alive with the fish , the caribou , ” yakeleya said . hunting also helps avoid high food costs , which yakeleya worries could increase as the pandemic affects the supply chain . on the shores of southern indian lake in manitoba , chief shirley ducharme of the o pipon - na - piwin cree nation has also called on members to hunt and fish , and to share their bounty . right now , it ’ s goose and duck season and the community is excited about boiling the birds in an open - fire pot to get tender meat and soup . “ we crave those when it ’ s not the season to hunt , ” she said . restrictions to limit the spread of the virus have made it difficult for the more than 1 , 100 people on the reserve . they can no longer travel south , there ’ s anxiety about food prices , and , like elsewhere , parents need to keep children who aren ’ t going to school occupied . read more : easing covid - 19 restrictions too soon could jeopardize vulnerable communitiesmanitoba has eased some of its restrictions , but ducharme said o pipon - na - piwin ’ s will remain until at least the end of the month , since overcrowding in households and some people ’ s health problems put them at risk . the first nation formed a pandemic committee and one of its projects is to arrange for kids and their families to connect with elders to learn traditional skills from their backyards . that means baking bannock , preparing geese for cooking , gathering traditional medicines , boiling tea and taking part in scavenger hunts . “ it all entails with traditional and culture things that we have always kept alive and are now carrying on through generations and generations , ” ducharme said . indigenous services canada says there are more than 168 cases of covid - 19 among first nations across the country as of may 8 . la loche , a dene village in northern saskatchewan , has been of particular concern as an outbreak there has been linked to the deaths of two elders . the virus has also spread to nearby first nations . there are no confirmed cases involving manitoba first nations , but chief nelson genaille of the sapotaweyak cree said his community is watching closely and taking precautions . about 1 , 000 people live on the reserve about 600 kilometres north of winnipeg . genaille said he ’ s advised his members to look to their own backyards to find traditional sustenance and food . “ that ’ s where we are at right now with today ’ s epidemic : go back to the old way when you were eating something natural . ” the sapotaweyak have used social media to connect those who need food to people who are able to hunt and fish . the first nation pays for gas for the hunting and delivery trips . genaille ’ s people live on the shores of lake winnipegosis , so they already deal with travelling long distances and paying high food costs . he said a return to the land is necessary during these uncertain times when costs and supply are unpredictable . it ’ s also reminded a lot of members how important their traditions are . “ because of the road restrictions , the only access they do have is back into the wilderness . we are very privileged where we are situated . ” kelly geraldine malone , the canadian presslike us on facebook and follow us on twitter . want to support local journalism during the pandemic ? make a donation here . coronavirusindigenous
__label__no_relevant alleged threats made to timber harvesters as tensions rise in port blandford amid rising tensions and a government - issued warning of possible threats against local timber harvesters , the mayor of port blandford is arguing for both peace in his central newfoundland community and an end to logging operations in its surrounding valley . while chad holloway said the spectre of commercial harvesting in the southwest river valley has been contentious for the last few years , a notice issued thursday by the department of land and fish resources of " alleged threats to the physical safety of domestic and commercial harvesters " has escalated the need to find common ground . " we have to come to a non - violent solution here , " said holloway . the notice asked for both domestic and commercial harvesters to curtail their work until more is known about the threats . cbc requests for more information were unanswered . holloway said he did not know the nature of the threats but he knows well the frustration behind them . " there ' s people in the community that feel that their backs are up against the wall , " he told cbc newfoundland morning . " there ' s a lot of passion about that valley . " the trees surrounding port blandford are a key part of the town ' s tourism draw , says holloway . ( submitted by linda davis ) tourism and treesthat passion stems from port blandford ' s landscape , as it lies in a heavily forested area adjacent to terra nova national park . holloway said the valley ' s trees provide a beautiful backdrop that the community has cashed in on , with more than half its municipal tax revenue coming from tourism , whether it be from seasonal residents or businesses . a hundred local jobs are also in the tourism industry , said holloway , a sizable number for a community of a little more than 600 . there ' s a lot of forest in newfoundland , and they do not have to touch that valley . - chad holloway " we want to try to preserve our viewscapes . we ' re gonna try to protect our industry , our economy that we ' ve worked so hard to build , " he said , calling any commercial harvesting " an attack " on tourism . holloway also wrote a passionate five - page open letter of facebook detailing the locals ' love for the forest and calling for a complete moratorium on commercial harvesting in the valley . province ' s planthe province ' s commercial logging plan , approved in february 2017 , allows for harvesting permits in the valley subject to a number of conditions . the plan states that harvesting should be restricted on highly visible slopes , including viewscapes seen from the national park , and that " the forest service , where operationally feasible , will implement strategies to provide a balance between forest harvesting and the non - timber values identified by tourism , " which at minimum should involve a 100 - metre uncut buffer along highways . council , minister clash over planned forestry road in port blandfordholloway however , says the valley should be off - limits , particularly because it only holds what he says is a " not a lot of wood . " " if 8 , 000 [cubic] metres of wood is going to make or break the forestry industry in newfoundland , there ' s something definitely wrong with the forestry industry , " he said . while port blandford residents have been vocal in the past about their opposition to clearcutting , holloway said locals are ok with those operations happening slightly further afield . " these harvesters can just move up the road a little bit further , " he said . " we understand where harvesters are coming from ; we know that they have a living to make as well . butthere ' s a lot of forest in newfoundland , and they do not have to touch that valley , " he said . the province has said the rcmp is looking into the alleged threats . read more from cbc newfoundland and labrador
__label__no_relevant courts in newfoundland and labrador resuming with a case backlog in the thousands a ast . john ' s , n . l . —in a year , provincial courts around newfoundland and labrador deal with a vast numbers of cases : 28 , 000 charges , according to the chief judge , and 5 , 000 scheduled trials on the dockets . one year will see about 3 , 800 arrests , 1 , 750 small claims trials , 1 , 400 applications for judicial authorizations and 1 , 110 appearances for summary offence tickets and contraventions . apart from that , there are about 100 other appearances daily , either bail hearings or pre - trial conferences or settlement conferences . what happens when all of a sudden the court has to close its doors for three months ? a significant challenge , to say the least . related “ i ’ m sure you can imagine the backlog is huge , ” provincial court chief judge pamela goulding told members of the law society of newfoundland and labrador in a webinar last week . “ we have 7 , 000 appearances lost , 9 , 000 hours of sitting time lost , so we ’ re going to double - book or triple book . ” the initial challenges came with the closure of the court due to the covid - 19 pandemic in the middle of march , goulding explained . though the facilities closed they didn ’ t shut down , with bail hearings , in - custody trials and emergency cases taking place by teleconference , and later , videoconference through a memorial university platform . the court has worked its way through three months of obstacles since then — including some disagreement on whether or not certain cases could legally be heard electronically and a hesitation by lawyers and accused persons to go forward by virtual means — and is now set to reopen june 29 . in downtown st . john ’ s , atlantic place — where the provincial court is housed — has already started preparing , with floor stickers marking out six - foot social distancing measurements in certain areas , posters with hygiene reminders in light of the covid - 19 virus at various locations , and signs on every elevator , telling potential occupants , “ maximum number of people in elevator : 1 . use this opportunity to get some exercise — take the stairs or wait for the next elevator . ” once the court opens it will operate at 90 per cent of its usual level . goulding said the focus will be on matters including criminal trials , family cases and peace bonds ; traffic , small claims and contraventions cases will remain postponed for now , likely until the fall . bail hearings , arraignments and sentencings will still be conducted virtually unless otherwise directed by a judge , while trials , preliminary inquiries and other matters will proceed in person unless otherwise ruled . provincial court will reopen its doors post - covid - 19 on june 29 , and the premises at atlantic place in st . john ' s are getting ready . posters remind visitors to adhere to public health guidelines like social distancing , and limit elevators to one person at a time . - tara bradbury / the telegramdrug treatment court , mental health court and family violence intervention court will all be fully reinstated . due to social distancing rules , access to the court will be restricted to participants in the proceedings , including the lawyers , parties , witnesses , support workers , probation officers , victims services workers , parents of young offenders , journalists and others who have been given advance permission by a judge . everyone attending provincial court must wear a non - medical face mask and one will be provided to anyone who doesn ’ t have one . courtroom surfaces will be disinfected between appearances . in places like happy valley - goose bay , where courtroom space is tight , the court is looking to secure a larger location to hold proceedings on busy days . the same is true in st . john ’ s for courtroom no . 5 , which is set to call 60 people on july 2 alone . “ obviously we need another location in order for there to be physical distancing and because while we want to get the work done , we want to get it done as safely as possible for all justice system participants , ” goulding said . “ reducing the number of people in our courtrooms is really , really going to be the challenge . ” supreme court wrestling with jury selectionit ’ s a similar situation at the supreme court of newfoundland and labrador , which began hearing in - person cases last week for the first time since march . since court operations were restricted three months ago by covid - 19 , 1 , 000 appearances have been missed , said chief justice raymond whalen . the superior court saw the same challenges as summary court when it came to technology and the uptake among lawyers and their clients of virtual proceedings , and whalen encouraged law society members to remain flexible in regard to scheduling appearances in the coming months . essential matters will be heard as quickly as possible , he said . he expects it could take up to a year to get all the judge - alone criminal trials and civil trials back on track . civil applications should all be recovered by this coming november . jury trials are the “ tough nut to crack , ” whalen said , given they can ’ t proceed virtually and require hundreds of people to be summoned for jury selection . whalen said in april the court was looking for alternate locations in which to hold jury trials . “ no one has the answer in canada but i think we have the best plan , from what i ’ ve heard , ” whalen said , crediting the department of justice . the court now has an agreement to use the beothuk building on crosbie place in st . john ’ s — the same location where the muskrat falls inquiry took place — for jury trials , allowing compliance with social distancing guidelines . “ no one has the answer in canada but i think we have the best plan , from what i ’ ve heard , ” — chief justice raymond whalenthe premises are already being renovated for the purpose , whalen said , and arrangements are being made for alternate jury trial venues in other areas of the province as well . “ the physical space of handling and conducting the jury trial itself will be accommodated by that facility with proper social distancing , ” the chief justice explained . as for jury selection , the court is attempting to arrange use of a school like the college of the north atlantic combined with video technology to allow for that process to happen . “ it will be logistically difficult but it ’ s the only solution that ’ s available to us and we ’ re aggressively pursuing that , ” whalen said . by the time the next scheduled jury trial happens in september , arrangements will be in place . in the meantime , attendance at supreme court proceedings is also limited , with the gallery benches already marked with signs at six - foot intervals . while face masks are optional , hand sanitization upon entry is not , and visitors must answer a series of questions related to their potential risk of transmitting the covid - 19 virus before entering the courthouse . the province ’ s court of appeal , which includes one small courtroom with limited capacity , has also been proceeding by virtual means , and will move to in - person hearings early next month . attendance will be restricted to those involved in the matter , said chief justice deborah fry , and the court is prepared to default to a virtual proceeding if the number of participants is likely to violate public health guidelines . twitter : @tara_bradbury
__label__no_relevant sask . child poverty rates still among highest in canada : report saskatchewan ' s child poverty rates are higher than almost all other provinces , according to a report on the issue . the provincial rate of child poverty is about 26 . 7 per cent , it says in the saskatchewan report on child and family poverty that is based on 2016 data . the national rate was reported at 19 . 6 per cent . only manitoba and nunavut had worse numbers . the report says inequality has grown in saskatchewan . " again , saskatchewan has the dubious distinction of being the bottom of the pack . we have the highest domestic violence rate of all the provinces , the highest sexual assault rate of all the provinces , " said hillary aitken , who is the senior director of housing with ywca regina . aitken said she continues to see the same vulnerable people fall through the cracks and a lack of empathy for those doing the falling . " people are getting further removed from this problem and like to think of it as something that somebody else should respond to , " aitken said . the ywca works with children and moms at its emergency homeless shelter and domestic violence shelter . " we ' re seeing in both of those programs the need for services increased steadily . not only are we serving more women , but we ' re turning away more women , " she said . she said staff have to turn people away every day . aitken said these shelters are for extreme situations and don ' t account for the people struggling day - to - day to make ends meet . the ywca also has homes for children involved in the welfare system . aitken said the majority are apprehended and put in the system because of issues stemming from poverty . she said children are often apprehended because moms have to make tough choices to survive . for example , they may not be able to miss work to take a child to a doctor ' s appointment . she also said poverty is " disproportionately impacting indigenous kids in saskatchewan . " there is a downstream effect of poverty , she said , noting impoverished children can later become tied up in the justice or health systems if there is not early intervention . aitken wants to see action . " the report talks about a missed opportunity to turn things around — that investing in kids and family poverty is actually a good thing to do for our province — and it hasn ' t been done for many years . " minister says poverty ' is a concern ' minister of social services paul merriman said " poverty in the province of saskatchewan doesn ' t lie at the provincial government ' s feet . this is a community issue . " merriam said provincial data showed overall poverty rates dropped from 10 . 7 per cent in 2015 to 9 . 2 per cent in 2016 . merriam said the province will look to add more resources in identified " hot spots " such as saskatoon , north battleford and prince albert . ​ " we have some initiatives in place but it ' s going to take time . we can ' t fix this problem within a couple of years because it took us years to get here . " author says stats unsurprising " unfortunately , this is not surprising , " said miguel sanchez , an associate professor in sociology at the university of regina who co - authored saskatchewan ' s report . he said the subjects of the report are children , " who through no fault of their own have to experience the effects of poverty . " sanchez said that when saskatchewan experienced its resource boom , there was an " overwhelming message that economic growth will solve poverty . " miguel sanchez co - authored saskatchewan ' s report and says it ' s frustrating that the provincial rate of child poverty continues to measure well - above the national average . ( cbc ) he said the numbers indicate economic growth isn ' t the solution to saskatchewan ' s child poverty problem . sanchez wants people to consider economic redistribution and government transfers as a solution . the numbers show child poverty numbers would be much higher had it not been for government assistance , he said . 
__label__no_relevant rollinsford police : domestic violence suspect sought after fleeing from officer rollinsford — police are seeking a woman who allegedly fled from police early saturday morning , hours after a domestic violence arrest . sarah letendre , 34 , was arrested about 11 p . m . friday , july 10 after police were called for a disturbance , according to chief robert ducharme of the rollinsford police department . she was charged with domestic violence simple assault , obstructing report of crime and resisting arrest . on saturday , july 11 , at approximately 4 : 29 a . m . , letendre was stopped by the rollinsford police for for alleged violation of a protective order for contacting the victim in the earlier incident . as an officer attempted to arrest her and remove her from the vehicle , she sped off , according to ducharme . “ fortunately the officer released his grip on her and was not injured as a result , ” ducharme wrote in a press release . a warrant was obtained for letendre on the following charges : reckless conduct , violation of a protective order , resisting arrest , disobeying a police officer and breach of bail conditions . letendre was last seen driving a white jeep patriot with new hampshire license plate 4644631 . ducharme requests anyone who sees her to call rollinsford police at ( 603 ) 742 - 8549 or their local police department . 
__label__no_relevant can i fly to another province ? your coronavirus travel questions answered much of canada is undergoing a reopening process after months in lockdown . with cases of the novel coronavirus declining , many are embracing the possibility of sitting on a patio or getting a haircut . but one element of the lockdown has remained stiffly in place — travel guidelines for canadians . the federal government still emphasizes that all non - essential travel outside of canada must be avoided . they ’ ve made it clear on their website that people deciding to travel during the pandemic could not only put themselves and others at risk for being infected with covid - 19 , it could also result in them becoming stranded . “ if you choose to travel despite these advisories , be aware that commercial airspace closures and movement restrictions can occur without warning and prevent your return to canada , ” they state . story continues below advertisementthere will be no additional facilitated flights organized by the government to bring home canadians who decided to fly out of the country , they state . they also warn that travellers may have difficulty accessing essential services , may face movement restrictions and quarantine , and that insurance may not cover any medical expenses . only limited consular services will be available , they add . with many curious about the possibility of flying now that activities available to canadians are being expanded across the country , global news posed some common travel questions to health experts . is it safe to book flights again ? despite reopening procedures within the country , getting on a plane is a different environment — and it ’ s not an option that ’ s recommended , said colin furness , an infection control epidemiologist and assistant professor at the university of toronto . “ i can ’ t imagine getting on a plane anytime soon , ” he said . “ and i would never advise anyone to get on a plane , anytime soon . ” furness says there are two primary reasons why he firmly does not recommend air travel right now . your risk of getting covid - 19 is proportional to how close you are to someone who is infected , and the length of time you are near that person , he said . story continues below advertisement1 : 43 airlines and travel industry ask that restrictions be loosened by summer airlines and travel industry ask that restrictions be loosened by summer “ the thing about an airplane ( is ) you ’ ve got tons of both , ” he said . sitting next to someone for hours is dangerous and passengers could be asymptomatic , he said . this means even if passengers are screened for symptoms , you are still at risk of infection . furness also questions whether airlines can deliver what they are promising in terms of safety standards . airlines are a business , he says , wondering how they can operate at a loss by significantly reducing the number of people on planes . flights have been cut or suspended by most airlines , including canadian companies like porter airlines , which now says they will resume operations on july 29 — one month after they said they ’ d initially start flying again . when they do resume , their policies will reflect public health recommendations , they state . story continues below advertisementbut some airlines that are operating have implemented detailed safety standards . air canada announced their cleancare+ program last month , which includes a temperature check and health screening before the flight , all customers are required to wear masks and surfaces are cleaned with a “ hospital grade ” disinfectant , they state on their website . from may 15 to june 30 they are also blocking every adjacent seat in the economy cabin . zahid butt , an assistant professor at the university of waterloo who specializes in infectious disease epidemiology , says it ’ s still important to avoid all non - essential travel , and if you have to travel , you need to follow public health guidelines at the airport which includes using hand sanitizer , washing hands and practising physical distancing . “ when you ’ re inside the aircraft , try to have at least a face mask so that your droplets don ’ t spread to another person , ” he said . it ’ s likely mandatory on these flights , he added . even with the middle seat empty , the distance from the next person in your row , as well as the person in front of or behind you , is less than six feet , he said . what should i do about refunds or cancellations ? major canadian airlines are offering different options when it comes to refunds and cancellations . story continues below advertisementair transat flights are suspended until july 23 and they state on their website that travel credits will be granted automatically for 24 months after customers ’ flights were cancelled . airlines like westjet have also suspended international travel routes until june 25 and they are also offering a two - year travel credit for any cancelled flights or vacation packages . air canada introduced expanded booking offerings at the end of may following public criticism for providing a travel credit to customers for cancelled flights , rather than a refund , global news reported . until june 30 , passengers can make a one - time change with no fees to all new or existing bookings between march 1 , 2020 , until june 20 , 2021 . they state on their website that customers who purchased a refundable ticket will be able to get a refund , but those with non - refundable tickets will only be eligible for a credit . the airline still plans to fly to 100 destinations this summer , including the u . s . , europe , the caribbean , asia and south america . 2 : 22 coronavirus : what you need to know for summer travel in canada coronavirus : what you need to know for summer travel in canadaas for sunwing , the airline has suspended all southbound flights until june 25 . travel credits valid until june 2022 are available for those who booked flights or vacation packages between march 17 and june 25 . story continues below advertisementwhat do i need to know about flexible bookings ? full refunds are difficult to find right now and most airlines are providing travel credits , global news reported previously . but these travel credits could come at financial risk for passengers , said gábor lukács , an air passenger rights advocate . customers need to be wary of fare increases when rebooking , he told global news in a previous report . airlines are waiving rebooking fees but customers are being left to cover cost differences out of pocket , if the fares have increased , he said . “ you will not get a flight to new york city in september for the price you paid in february , ” lukács said via email . to raise costs of flights for passengers rebooking would be a violation of canada ’ s air passenger protection regulations if their flights were cancelled by the airline . if the airline files for insolvency , it ’ s currently unclear what would happen to customer ’ s travel vouchers , said lukács . lukács says customers should be getting refunds instead of vouchers , even if they bought a non - refundable ticket . story continues below advertisementprime minister justin trudeau has mentioned that canadians are concerned about being given travel credits that ultimately they may not want to use , even within the next two years . “ i think we need to have some very careful discussions with airlines , with the air travel sector and , indeed , with canadians … to try and figure out a way forward where we can ensure that canadians are treated fairly and our airline industry remains there for when our economy picks up again , ” the prime minister said last month . “ we will work with airlines and with canadians who are concerned with finding solutions . ” when can i cross the u . s . border ? the government ’ s official travel advice for heading to the u . s . is that all non - essential travel — to any country — needs to be avoided . the canada - u . s . land border remains closed for non - essential travellers . however , canadians can technically still fly to the u . s . as long as they haven ’ t recently been to china , brazil , the european schengen area ( which includes finland , germany and spain , among 26 countries ) , the united kingdom or ireland . while canadians are not required to self - isolate for 14 days when they enter the u . s . , they will have to isolate when they return home to canada . story continues below advertisementthe u . s . has more than two million confirmed cases of covid - 19 , while canada is nearing 100 , 000 cases . some states are seeing surges following reopening . travel insurance may be difficult to acquire as the official government recommendation is no non - essential travel , to any country , according to a previous global news report . should i be travelling to other provinces ? with international travel not being an option for most canadians , some wonder if they should take a short flight or a car ride to another province for vacation . several provinces and territories have already implemented travel restrictions for those who are not residents of that region . furness said problems can arise when travel is done between provinces and an individual doesn ’ t isolate . b . c . still recommends that all non - essential travel beyond the b . c . - alberta border be avoided . the province ’ s borders to the yukon and northwest territories are also restricted to essential travel only and some highways are closed . alberta , saskatchewan and ontario do not have provincial travel bans . all three provinces , however , are advising against non - essential travel . quebec has begun to loosen some travel restrictions that were implemented earlier in the pandemic . in april , checkpoints were created to bar travellers from too much mobility if they weren ’ t travelling for essential reasons . by may , most of quebec has opened back up again but some areas are still restricted including the cree territory of james bay . story continues below advertisement1 : 49 northern new brunswick cross - border economy strained over quebec travel restrictions northern new brunswick cross - border economy strained over quebec travel restrictionssome provinces are imposing a mandatory 14 - day quarantine for travellers coming from other parts of canada . nova scotia and manitoba have both implemented these orders . and even stricter regulations are in place in newfoundland and labrador , prince edward island and new brunswick . in newfoundland and labrador , only residents of the province can enter along with those who have extenuating circumstances . new brunswick is prohibiting all non - essential travel and the province is screening all who enter and enforcing a mandatory 14 - day quarantine . prince edward island is also barring all non - essential travel and anyone attempting to enter the province for non - essential reasons can be turned away , or be told to leave immediately if they are found to be there for the wrong reasons . story continues below advertisementnew brunswick has tied a new swath of cases to a doctor they claimed traveled to quebec and did not isolate upon return to the province . however , that doctor disputes their claims and is seeking an apology from new brunswick , saying everyone he initially came into contact with has tested negative for the virus . in terms of safety in general , furness said the safety measures in place for summer are allowing canadians to engage in “ irresponsible ” behaviour , including travelling between provinces . that will change in the fall when a second wave emerges , he said . “ what brakes can we put on this and really prime people ’ s expectations ? we may really , really need to stop travel very suddenly in october , ” he said . it should be made clear that while some inter - provincial travel may be allowed now in some cases , there could be a serious uptick in cases in the fall and serious restrictions may need to be implemented again , he said . “ if we have to stop some things from happening , travel is very high on my list , ” he said . “ i don ’ t want to close schools so people can go on vacation . ” story continues below advertisementquestions about covid - 19 ? here are some things you need to know : symptoms can include fever , cough and difficulty breathing — very similar to a cold or flu . some people can develop a more severe illness . people most at risk of this include older adults and people with severe chronic medical conditions like heart , lung or kidney disease . if you develop symptoms , contact public health authorities . to prevent the virus from spreading , experts recommend frequent handwashing and coughing into your sleeve . they also recommend minimizing contact with others , staying home as much as possible and maintaining a distance of two metres from other people if you go out . in situations where you can ’ t keep a safe distance from others , public health officials recommend the use of a non - medical face mask or covering to prevent spreading the respiratory droplets that can carry the virus . for full covid - 19 coverage from global news , click here . 
__label__no_relevant new archbishop of york sorry for response to domestic abuse allegations the incoming archbishop of york has apologised for failing to take proper action relating to allegations of domestic abuse by a priest which were disclosed to him 10 years ago . stephen cottrell , who will be confirmed as the church of england ’ s second most senior cleric next week , failed to ensure that the disclosure had been properly documented and that further action had been taken . “ i am deeply distressed and extremely sorry , ” he said in a statement on monday . he added : “ in my new position as archbishop of york it is absolutely essential that i am open and transparent about the need for the whole of our church to be scrupulously honest with each other about any failings in safeguarding . ” justin welby , the archbishop of canterbury , said cottrell “ clearly should have informed the authorities and made fuller notes of what he did in this case . he has shown humility in immediately admitting he failed to act as he should have done in this case . ” the disclosure of cottrell ’ s shortcomings in the case is a blow to the c of e , which has worked to rebuild trust on safeguarding issues after decades of convictions and allegations of physical , sexual , psychological and emotional abuse , and their cover - up by church leaders . welby has repeatedly apologised to survivors for abuse carried out by clergy and has pledged to implement the recommendations of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse when it publishes its report on its investigations into the church , expected next year . concerns about the way cottrell handled the abuse disclosure were raised with the church ’ s national safeguarding team ( nst ) this year . the nst investigated the matter , took independent legal advice and interviewed cottrell . in a statement , the nst said : “ the concerns raised were about the action taken following allegations of domestic abuse perpetrated by a parish priest . at the time bishop stephen responded to the survivor , offered support and subsequently referred the allegation within the diocese , but did not ensure the matter was referred to the statutory authorities or directly to the diocesan safeguarding adviser . ” cottrell had “ shown insight and humility in accepting that he failed to act as he should have done in relation to a serious matter … the nst investigation concluded that he posed no current risk of not responding appropriately to safeguarding disclosures and that informal action was a reasonable and proportionate response to the case . ” cottrell said : “ ten years ago i was approached about a safeguarding allegation regarding a priest . i was able to see the survivor and begin to hear what was a difficult and harrowing story . “ however , i was moving between roles at the time and although i did speak with colleagues about the actions that needed to be taken , i failed to ensure that these were properly documented and followed through in the way i would expect . now that i have discovered that this incident was not followed up as it should have been , i am deeply distressed and extremely sorry … “ in the past , the church of england has been too quick to protect its own reputation and slow to admit its failings . this must change . those in public office should be subject to scrutiny . ” he said he was embarrassed at his shortcomings , but added : “ i want to go on the record about what has happened in order to demonstrate a new spirit of openness and transparency . ” 
__label__no_relevant proposed domestic violence protection act gets odyssey house backing odyssey house in grande prairie is throwing its support behind the provincial government ’ s proposed disclosure to protect against domestic violence act . the act , modelled after “ clare ’ s law ” , would allow at - risk individuals to better find out if an intimate partner has a history of violence or an abusive past . director of communications with odyssey house makayla marcotte says the programs currently available in grande prairie allow them to try to allocate as much support as possible to help women who have experienced domestic violence by providing tools and encouragement . “ a big part of that is one - on - one counselling and supporting women as they navigate the court and legal system , ” she explains . “ in september alone we had 26 instances of legal support which totalled over 45 hours and that ’ s just a rough average for one month , so it ’ s prevalent . ” marcotte says the most important part of the proposed law , in her mind , is it could bring attention and awareness to domestic violence and the growing number of reported cases in the grande prairie region . “ saskatchewan was the first province to introduce a law of this type in 2018 , and alberta has the third - highest rate of domestic violence in the country , ” she notes . “ this law is a way the government is really recognizing the magnitude of domestic violence , and how it affects alberta and canada . ” according to the family violence death review committee , there were 166 deaths in alberta due to domestic and family violence between 2008 and 2017 . clare ’ s law was enacted in the united kingdom after a woman with that name was killed by an ex - boyfriend with a history of domestic violence . 
__label__no_relevant new brunswick legislature about to end busy sitting fredericton - - the vote will be friday , but new brunswick ' s premier feels confident he now has the votes he needs to pass the controversial essential services bill - - avoiding an election and a nursing home strike . a lot has been done during this sitting of the legislature . twenty - seven pieces of legislation have been introduced since nov . 19 , including a consumer carbon tax . " it ' s a win for the consumers of new brunswick to be able to have our own model or price on pollution , our own carbon tax , that will be best put to use to protect our consumers , " said environment minister jeff carr . they ' ve also introduced protections for victims of domestic violence , " to ensure that woman who are victims of domestic violence can break their lease , and get out of their apartments without a huge cost , " said green party leader david coon . and then there was a new bill on an old issue : mandatory vaccinations . " i ' m feeling pretty good about it , perhaps it ' s just christmas optimism , but i think from all sides of the house that there ' s recognition that protecting our children is important , especially as the headlines pile up from around the world about the spread of measles and other dangerous and easily preventable diseases , " said education minister dominic cardy . above all , the premier says getting his essential services bill passed was critical . the bill would allow for a process to determine how many nursing home workers could legally strike , but it also includes a condition that during binding arbitration , the province ' s ability to pay be considered . after a marathon debate on the bill wednesday night , an amendment was passed which ensured that during the confidence vote friday , the people ' s alliance will support the bill " it was very important that this went through , " said premier blaine higgs . " so , at this point in time , for this year other than the ones that are common - this would certainly have been the most important moment for my government thus far . " some of these bills still have a ways to go before becoming law , but 27 pieces of new legislation is far more productive than last year . 
__label__no_relevant yukon feeling optimistic as numbers of cases of covid - 19 remain low the chief medical officer for the yukon announced two new cases of covid - 19 bringing the total for the territory to eleven but says life could get back to normal this summer if people remain vigilant today . dr . brendan hanley said the new cases are related to a cluster in whitehorse that is associated with international travel . hanley said of the eleven total cases , eight have recovered from the virus . the yukon territory was one of the last to report a case of covid 19 and hanley attributes that to having an early advantage of learning about social and border measures abroad as neighboring provinces started experiencing community spread . “ that gave us evidence that the risk profile is changing from purely associated with international travel to now being associated increasingly with domestic travel ” hanley told aptn news . nicer weather is drawing more people to the outdoors , but hanley said most yukoners are taking social distancing seriously and following the measures announced by the government . the yukon recently announced that all territorial parks and campgrounds will remain closed until june . since the start of the covid - 19 pandemic , hanley has been responsible for keeping yukoners informed with the most up to date information on almost a daily basis . he said due to the fundamental steps being taken , the number of cases have remained low in the territory . ten of the cases have been reported in the city of whitehorse and one from an outside community . hanley won ’ t say which community citing privacy as the issue . he said if the trend continues , he is optimistic that life for yukoners could start returning back to normal by summer . “ if we can adhere to all of the physical distancing and maintain that , ” hanley said , “ we do more of in terms of encouraging the ability to have say recreational facilities reopen , summer activities , what are the parts we can relax . ” chris macintyre reporter / whitehorse chris was born in toronto but has lived all over canada . he moved to the yukon in 2009 where he lived and worked in dawson city . chris ’ s background is in radio broadcasting and he has worked with cfyt 106 . 9 , cbc yukon , and chon fm as a host and show producer . chris joined aptn news in may . report an error tell us your storyyour name * your email address * details * submit report
__label__no_relevant covid - 19 pandemic is driving new west crime numbers down the covid - 19 pandemic is driving crime rates down in new westminster – but not across the board . the new westminster police department noted that new crime trends have emerged in the city since covid - 19 - related public health orders were put in place by the province five weeks ago . since then , the local department has seen a “ significant reduction ” in most major crime categories , as well as residential break - and - enters , frauds and auto theft , according to a press release . article continues below “ these statistics reflect how we ’ re living right now , ” said acting chief const . dave jansen in the release . “ this reduction in crime could be attributed to physical distancing , people spending more time at home , and the numerous different public health orders . ” the news , however , is somewhat mixed . while there has been a 54% reduction in residential break - and - enters , there ’ s been an 8% increase in business break - and - enters . at the same time , however , property crime has gone down by 19% . the press release notes that , thanks to the hard work of nwpd officers , numerous arrests have been made in connection to property crime across the city in the past several weeks . a number of those arrests were made at vacant properties and construction sites in the city . “ while the overall reduction of many kinds of crime is positive , there are some statistics that are causing us concern , ” jansen said . “ these include a drop in domestic violence reports . our concern with self - isolation is that it may keep victims of domestic violence from reaching out for help ; they may be having problems notifying us . ” the new westminster police department encourages victims of domestic violence to reach out to the police at 604 - 529 - 2525 for support or to call 911 in emergencies , and for neighbours to call 911 if they hear what they suspect is a domestic assault in progress . another area of note is theft from cars ; the nwpd has seen a surge in theft from autos of 38% . everyone is reminded to park in well - lit areas , remove all valuables from their vehicles and to secure all doors and windows . if you are a victim of theft from auto , this can be reported to the nwpd online at www . nwpolice . org . 
__label__no_relevant more men are killed than women , so why focus on violence against women ? send this page to someone via emailmyrna dawson is no stranger to questions about focusing on violence against women when murder victims are predominantly men . as the director of the canadian femicide observatory for justice and accountability , she gets it a lot . her quick response ? “ it ’ s not a competition — it ’ s about prevention . ” her less - quick response ? violence against women is unique , and entrenched in our society , where she and many other experts note that social structures “ perpetuate and maintain gender inequalities . ” the term “ femicide ” isn ’ t meant to convey women are being killed more often than men , dawson says . “ it ’ s about underscoring that when women and girls are killed , it is in ways that are very distinct from the ways in which men and boys are killed and , therefore , prevention requires an approach that recognizes those differences . ” story continues below advertisementit ’ s about power , says nadine wathen , a western university professor and canada research chair in mobilizing knowledge on gender - based violence . in many respects , canadian society still buys into traditional gender norms and the idea that “ men have certain rights to this power to be able to control women , children , and other men who don ’ t conform , ” wathen says . “ we ’ re in a very heteronormative , white , male - dominated society and that works really well for a lot of men . ” tweet thisoverall , more men are murdered : 485 in 2017 versus 173 women , per statistics canada . but tease apart the data , says nazanin moghadami , a feminist and registered clinical counsellor in vancouver , and you ’ ll see that men are mostly killed in gang - related violence or random crime , while women are killed largely by their intimate partners . look at the police - reported victimization rate per 100 , 000 people in canada and you ’ ll see that 487 women experience domestic violence compared with 134 men . story continues below advertisementthe way men are murdered almost always has “ nothing to do with [intimate] relationships and power - based crime , ” moghadami says , which is why violence against women warrants a national action plan as opposed to an action plan that doesn ’ t distinguish between genders . look at the media and the work researchers have been doing on violence against men and boys , says dawson , and you ’ ll see stories about them that are never accompanied by , “ why aren ’ t you focusing on women and girls ? ” it ’ s all about the context : “ the subject of violence against women makes people uncomfortable , ” says dawson , which might be because of who is perpetrating the violence . “ people continue to adhere to the notion that such relationships are private and that violence within such relationships is normal . ” a lot of work has been done to look at risk factors like who is a victim , who is a perpetrator , what age they are and how they are related . while that ’ s important , dawson says we don ’ t look enough at the bigger picture of gender inequality — issues like the ongoing wage gap , the devaluation of women ’ s work , or the lack of universal daycare . “ one way to deflect attention is by suggesting that more men are killed so these contributors cannot be the problem , ” she says . story continues below advertisementaddressing violence against women and gender nonconforming people not only helps women and gender nonconforming people , moghadami says , but men too . “ the stronger the women ’ s movement became , the more it actually brought equality , access and awareness for more than just women , ” she says . “ when we have equality , we have inclusion for the most vulnerable , and it protects everyone . but if we only focus on the people who have power , then we always forget the people who are targeted . ” tweet thisnone of this is to say that individual women don ’ t cause harm or commit crimes , says wathen , but the way our society is structured right now means that women “ suffer more from these experiences of violence . ” trying to neutralize the gendered aspect of this violence doesn ’ t help anyone , says wathen . one of the questions that keeps her up at night is how to better explain this to the men in her life who want equality but don ’ t always see their actions , including things like interrupting women frequently when they speak , through an equity lens . “ the people who are more marginalized need a bit of extra resourcing at the front end to get us to equal outcomes . ” ultimately , dawson says , she doesn ’ t think there would be such a backlash to researchers and media reports that focus on violence against women “ if our society valued women and girls . ” story continues below advertisement “ we would not be criticized for turning some attention to women and girls and violence against them given that research and media does also focus on men and boys , ” she says . “ those who deny this are choosing to ignore this reality for a specific purpose . ” want to learn more about gender - based violence , like sexual harassment , the complexities of violence against trans people , the shelter crisis , and the importance of teaching your kids to say vagina rather than ‘hoo - ha ’ ? read the full broken series . if you or someone you know is experiencing abuse or violence and needs help , here are resources you can access across canada . 
__label__no_relevant chief public health officer to meet with the groups criticizing her safety orders public health measures are doing more harm than good , according to a couple of groups in the northwest territories , and they ’ re going to get a chance to confront the chief public health officer with their views . last week , the nwt medical association and business leaders in the territory put forward criticism of dr . kami kandola ’ s safety regulations . the business alliance is calling on decision makers to “ strike a better balance between public health requirements and plans to safely reopen . ” this week , kandola and her team are meeting with both groups to discuss concerns and have a more “ fulsome ” conversation , kandola explained . “ there are always different opinions on the same subject and sometimes it ’ s more important to have the dialogue and talk , and hear each other out , ” she said . the business leaders have called nwt ’ s health measures a prolonged “ induced coma ” with “ businesses and their workers suffering the effects . ” meanwhile , the nwt medical association outlined several adverse effects mounting from covid response restrictions , including : decreased access to social and emotional supports , increased domestic violence , delaying diagnosis of other ailments and negative impacts on physical and mental health . kandola will meet with the business advisory committee on thursday evening and with the nwt medical association on friday afternoon . when asked if she could be swayed to ease restrictions , kandola said she has been “ easing and easing for the past 10 weeks . ” “ every measure i ’ ve taken has been more relaxed , ” she said . “ we ’ ve always had essential services open , but now we have hair salons , massages , opticians . regular offices are open . restaurants are open . we ’ ve opened up indoor sports , outdoor sports , all these different businesses in phase two . ” kandola explained that , “ in a measured approach , [we are] opening safely . ” while the nwt mines have their own machines that test for covid , most samples from nwt residents are sent to alberta , where it can take two to five days to get a response . although the nwt has a genexpert device that can process covid test results in less than an hour without having to be sent to an outside lab , there are limitations . “ the only struggle is that we don ’ t have the cartridges to be able to provide that [for everyone] . so we ’ re really reserving that for high - risk scenarios , ” said kandola . one such scenario , she explains , would be an outbreak within the homeless population , where it wouldn ’ t be possible to trace all points of contact . one scenario that would be cause for concern would be community spread where the source cannot be tracked and the health system becomes strained and overwhelmed , she cautioned . obtaining more genexpert cartridges to increase rapid testing capacity is proving difficult . “ there ’ s a worldwide demand for cartridges . hopefully they ’ ll increase their ability to meet the demand but it ’ s one of those narratives where there ’ s more demand than there is supply , ” kandola said . “ because of where we are , we are testing people who have symptoms . we have a travel restriction in place – this is a good spot to be in and we want to maintain it . ” 
__label__no_relevant more policy announcements from newfoundland and labrador liberal leadership hopefuls a ast . john ' s , n . l . —the andrew furey campaign issued another policy announcement on tuesday : support for $25 - per - day childcare by 2022 . " we have to make it easier for parents in this province . i ’ m committed to work with stakeholders to implement $25 - a - day daycare for all families in newfoundland and labrador , " furey stated in a news release . “ the conference board of canada says every $1 invested in early childhood education yields close to $6 in economic benefits . it helps more women enter the workforce , as has been seen in other places with affordable childcare . ” john abbott made a number of commitments on tuesday relating to women ’ s equality . abbott says he would work to establish a task force on domestic violence , set and meet a target of 50 per cent representation for women on government agencies , boards and commissions , and take women ’ s issues and equality into consideration on all government decisions . “ our liberal party will apply the same gender lens to its policies and procedures to ensure female candidates are properly supported throughout the nomination process and during election campaigns , ” abbott stated in a news release . “ i will make a respectful culture in the liberal caucus and the house of assembly a top priority . ” related : 
__label__no_relevant voice of the people — may 21 , 2020 a ainquiry vitalthe horrific details about the portapique killer should convince nova scotians to fully support the call for a public inquiry by 30 faculty members of the dalhousie university schulich law school . i fail to understand why this timely appeal appears to have fallen on deaf ears : premier mcneil has passed the buck to the federal government , while our public media , ( notably the cbc and the chronicle herald ) , have referred to the letter but unaccountably have failed to publish it . the law faculty ’ s letter rightly calls for an inquiry which not only examines the conduct of the rcmp and emo officials , but also examines systemic issues , which surely must include the deplorable gaps in canada ’ s gun control program , and the virtual disappearance of the policies and programs created decades ago under the governments of pierre elliot trudeau to address spousal assault , family violence and gun crimes . scott burbidge , port williamshardly a discoverythe following blurb appeared in the chronicle herald ’ s today in history , may 15 : “ 1602 : cape cod ( massachusetts , usa ) is discovered by english navigator bartholomew gosnold . ” the only way one could believe the aforementioned statement is to believe that the indigenous peoples of the americas were not human . cape cod had been occupied by the local indigenous people for thousands of years , so how could it be “ discovered ” when that had already happened eons before ? a non - racist blurb would read “ was the first european to visit cape cod . ” this statement about the underlying cause of racism , made by dalhousie university professor susan sherwin , is the best description i ’ ve ever read . it puts into words why it is so hard to get society to recognize , and accept , that the systemic racism that victimizes the first nations peoples of the americas exists : “ . . . the greatest danger of oppression lies where bias is so pervasive as to be invisible . . . ” daniel n . paul , halifaxshort of duckswhile some of us have been aware , over the years , of the diminishing duck population in the halifax public gardens and perhaps were hoping , with the birth of ducklings last summer , that this might reverse , it would seem that this is not to be . over several recent visits to the public gardens , i have only seen one single duck . some might recall pleasant family sunday afternoons which included a visit to the gardens to feed the ducks , when this was still allowed . we might be aware of several family or friends who would , almost daily , take a walk through the gardens to check on the ducklings . it is sad that what , for some , was a highlight of our visit has been allowed to disappear . i live half the year in victoria , b . c . , where it is my pleasure to see hundreds of ducks who live in beacon hill park year - round . admittedly the climate there is more duck - friendly , but i understand that even in nova scotia , in eastern passage , for example , ducks and ducklings can still be seen . perhaps some people in the more duck - populated areas can give our gardens - keepers some hints on how to rebuild the duck population . this would be nice . dr . james burchill , halifaxfaulty logicthe provincial government ( including the premier ) have regularly stated nova scotia was the last province to get covid - 19 cases . they then indicate this is one of the reasons we are the last province to roll out a recovery plan . nova scotia ’ s first case was march 15 , newfoundland and labrador was march 14 , manitoba and saskatchewan march 12 and new brunswick march 11 . it is factually correct to state we were last but , as indicated above , it was only by a few days compared with a number of other provinces . this hardly should provide any basis or logic to justify being the last ( by weeks ) to generate a comprehensive nova scotia covid - 19 recovery plan . bob barton , halifax
__label__no_relevant king : why i ' m marching for women on saturday like many busy women , i make lists . they keep me organized , ensure important work gets done , and help me make decisions . here is the list of reasons why i ’ m walking in this year ’ s ottawa women ’ s march : 1 ) . to reduce gender - based violence . every six days , a woman in canada is murdered by her intimate partner . every night , women and children fleeing domestic violence sleep in shelters in ottawa . girls and women are sex - trafficked in cities across canada , enduring substantial physical , psychological and emotional trauma . 2 ) . to highlight economic inequality . although women in canada now achieve higher levels of education than men do , they still earn less – just 87 cents for every dollar men get . this gender wage gap starts early and grows throughout women ’ s careers . in canada , three times more single mothers raise their children while living in poverty compared to single fathers . of people around the world living on less than one dollar a day , 70 per cent are women . 3 ) . to fight the climate crisis . globally , 80 per cent of people displaced by climate change are women . meeting canada ’ s ambitious climate target of net - zero carbon emissions by 2050 will not be accomplished if girls and women are not full participants in this effort . tapping in to the potential talent of half the population is imperative to accelerate clean tech innovation and growth , increase sustainable investments and policy making , and motivate individuals to reduce their carbon footprints . related4 ) . to protect women ’ s right to choose . access to a full range of reproductive health technologies is a human right and supports a woman ’ s health and wellbeing . however , in most countries , the ability to access safe and legal abortions is restricted in law or in practice . even in canada , where abortion is permitted , some women experience limited access to safe abortion services because of a lack of health services or political will . 5 ) . to promote women ’ s health . the medical research gender gap is real . women are often excluded from clinical trials , limiting knowledge of the difference between women ’ s health and men ’ s , and putting women at increased risk from lack of prevention , diagnosis and treatment . for example , more than 30 authors of a recent review by heart & stroke and the canadian women ’ s heart health alliance termed the lack of research into women ’ s cardiovascular disease “ stunning . ” they highlighted that women are under - diagnosed , under - treated and less aware of the risks they face from cardiovascular disease , which is the number one killer of women . 6 ) . to walk in solidarity with indigenous women . indigenous women are assaulted almost three times more often than non - indigenous women . despite representing only five per cent of the population , indigenous women now represent 42 per cent of incarcerated women in canada ’ s prisons . more than 80 per cent of first nations women living on reserves have a median income below the poverty line . 7 ) . to boost the number of women in politics . research shows that , as more women are elected to public office , there is a corresponding increase in policymaking that emphasizes quality of life and reflects the priorities of families , women , and ethnic and racial minorities . and yet , progress to elect more women at all levels of government in canada remains extremely slow , particularly for women of colour and indigenous women . the 2019 federal election saw 98 women elected , a modest gain of 10 in terms of representation from the 2015 election – from 26 per cent to 29 per cent of the 338 seats in the house of commons . of canada ’ s 13 first ministers , caroline cochrane of the northwest territories is the only woman . municipally , just seven of 24 members of ottawa council are women . saturday ’ s women ’ s march is an empowering and energizing opportunity to join diverse women and their allies to say that women ’ s equality is not up for debate . it ’ s also a rallying cry to elect more women for concrete progress on all these issues . susan king is a communications professional and ardent volunteer to elect more women to public office . in ottawa , women will be marching from parliament hill to ottawa city hall , beginning at 11 a . m . for more details , go to : http : / / www . womensmarchottawa . ca / also in the news‘i believe i am going to beat this ’ : councillor diane deans says at first public appearanceadam : what if ottawa ’ s light - rail trains are actually unfixable ? on dit what ? bilinguals who borrow english words follow the language rules , says linguist
__label__no_relevant boys in alberta schools get assaulted , threatened , robbed and slurred more often than rest of canada austin debussac was in grade 8 when his schoolmate pulled out a knife and showed it to him . " are you scared of it ? " he recalls the fellow teenager saying , which made him nervous . then things escalated . austin says the student put him in a chokehold and wielded the weapon in a terrifying way . " he held the knife to my throat . " the student held him that way for a moment , then let him go . it was all a joke , he insisted afterward . but even now , at age 18 , it ' s no laughing matter to austin . " i honestly didn ' t believe him at the time when he said he was joking around , " he says . some may assume this type of thing is an isolated incident . but a survey commissioned by cbc news of more than 4 , 000 young people across canada suggests it ' s more common than you might think . nationwide , 13 per cent of survey respondents said they were threatened with physical violence involving a weapon at least once from kindergarten to grade 8 . in alberta , it was 15 per cent . and among male students in alberta , it was 22 per cent — more than one in five . experiences with violence and bullying only tended to increase in high school . roughly two in five young albertans ( of all genders ) said they had been physically assaulted — shoved , slapped , hit , kicked or bitten — at least once from grade 9 to grade 12 . more than a third said they had been robbed of money , cellphones or other valuables . nearly two thirds said they had been called hateful names , while 40 per cent said they had been subjected to racist comments and 27 per cent said homophobic or transphobic comments were directed at them . in all these cases , the rates among male students in alberta were significantly higher than in the rest of canada , according to an analysis done by mission research , which conducted the survey on behalf of cbc news . nearly half of teen boys assaulted in high schoolamong the nearly 500 alberta youth who were surveyed , 49 per cent of boys said they were physically assaulted at least once in high school . that compares to 40 per cent of male students in the rest of the country . compared to their peers in other parts of canada , boys in alberta high schools also reported higher rates of having valuables stolen ( 33 per cent versus 25 per cent ) and being called names that are homophobic or transphobic ( 34 per cent versus 26 per cent . ) jake stika says he was disappointed but not surprised by the survey results . as executive director of a non - profit organization called next gen men , he works to promote " positive masculinity " and to redefine perceptions of what it means to " be a man " in canadian society . he notes that alberta ' s population , unlike most provinces , has more men than women , thanks largely to the male - dominated industries that make up a large part of the economy here , such as construction and oil and gas . he notes , too , that those industries have been going through tough times lately , something that has been linked to higher rates of domestic violence and suicide in the province . " and so i definitely think some of that anxiety , that uncertainty , is transferring over from the breadwinners in those homes to the children , as well as to the broader culture that we exist within here , " stika says . " men are unfortunately the primary perpetrators of all forms of violence and , aside from sexual and domestic violence , we ' re actually the no . 1 victims of all other forms of violence as well . " that ' s not to say the issue is limited to boys . ' gay as an insult ' samantha robinson , a grade 7 student who recently started attending a new school in calgary , says she ' s so far been shocked at how often students there " use gay as an insult . " " it ' s like : ' oh , that ' s so gay . ' or , ' you ' re so gay . ' or , ' this is so gay ' or whatever , " she says . " it makes me feel kind of like an outsider , because some of the kids in my class know that i ' m pansexual and … to hear this said from other people who aren ' t gay , it ' s kind of just uncomfortable in this situation but it ' s also kind of hurtful . " samantha robinson , a grade 7 student in calgary , describes what it ' s been like to change schools and hear how often kids in her new school use ' gay ' as an insult . ( robson fletcher / cbc ) samantha says she ' s tried to call out the behaviour but it ' s been difficult , as the new kid . " if i try to say something , it feels like the whole school is against me , " she says . " and the teachers don ' t do anything , either . " however , with the notable exception of sexual violence ( which will be discussed in a subsequent story in this series ) , the reported rates of bullying and violence among female students in alberta were not significantly different from their peers in the rest of canada , according to the mission research analysis . across alberta , there are hundreds of school authorities that each set their own policies on bullying and violence . the provincial government leaves it mainly up to each authority to administer these policies but requires that they comply with legislation to ensure " safe and caring " learning environments . one unusual approach that defies the typical types of school in alberta is the phoenix education foundation in calgary . while technically a private school , it caters largely to lower - income families , offering a hybrid of homeschooling and in - class learning for parents who want to have more direct involvement in their children ' s education . while it ' s not the primary source of their enrolment , head of school diana stinn says a growing number of parents come to phoenix because of violence or bullying their children have experienced in other school systems . diana stinn is head of school with the phoenix education foundation in calgary . ( robson fletcher / cbc ) " parents used to come for a variety of reasons . one was higher academic standards , or time together as a family — those kinds of things . over the last few years , we ' ve seen a significant change to anxiety and bullying being in the top three reasons why families decide to make a change , educationally , " stinn says . " oftentimes these families have tried the public system ; they ' ve tried the catholic system ; they ' ve tried other private schools and then they end up on our doorstep . so it ' s not for a lack of trying other options . but quite often when they come , they ' re frustrated . they ' re sad sometimes or very broken sometimes or angry . but they still are very much concerned about their student and wanting the very best for their kid . " incidences of violence are not tracked at a provincial level . it ' s up to " local school authorities and local law enforcement " to keep track of such things when they happen , says colin aitchison , press secretary to education minister adriana lagrange . ' not all sunshine and roses ' for austin ' s parents , the incident with the knife being held to his throat in grade 8 remains a frustration , even though he ' s now graduated from high school . they didn ' t want his photo included as part of this story because they still worry about his safety and don ' t want him to become a target . they feel the knife incident wasn ' t taken seriously enough by the school principal at the time and it left a lasting impression on the family , which had recently moved to calgary from saskatchewan when it happened . " to have your child lay there at night and cry and say ' mom , i hate it here . why why did we have to move here ? ' and you don ' t know what to tell him , " says his mother tracy debussac . " and you have to send him back to that school . " his father , myron debussac , says the people in charge of education at all levels need to acknowledge the issues more openly if the problems are going to be solved . " they ' ve got to get their heads out of their asses and realize that there are problems going on there , and there has to be more conversation , " he says . " and listen to the parents . it ' s not all sunshine and roses . " ' an adult who cares ' stinn , who has seen parents ' frustration and students ' anxiety first - hand , says bullying and violence are complex issues and systemic solutions will be , too . but , in her mind , there ' s one simple way to start making things better . " the no . 1 thing that makes a difference in everybody ' s life is having an adult who cares , " she says . " everybody is capable of doing that . and whether it ' s the teacher , whether it ' s involving more parents in the classroom , whether it ' s other caring professionals that are involved , having an adult who makes an effort , who shows that they care about a student — that is one of the no . 1 factor to ensuring that students are successful in school . " and , as an educator , she hopes parents won ' t look at the statistics in this survey and become despondent . " i think schools are amazing places , " stinn says . " people work very hard . they care about kids . it maybe doesn ' t always seem that way . i think education is complex . our world is getting more complex , but i think as long as we always keep the best interests of kids at heart then the school system and education will always be a value . and it will be a good experience for the majority of kids . " this survey was undertaken by the firm mission research on behalf of the cbc . the approach and questions were developed by the cbc , in collaboration with two of canada ' s leading researchers / psychologists on childhood violence , debra pepler and tracy vaillancourt . read more stories in this series : if you have feedback or stories you ' d like us to pursue as we continue to probe violence in schools in the coming months , please contact us at schoolviolence@cbc . ca . 
__label__no_relevant armed man seizes bus , holds 10 people hostage in ukraine lutsk , ukraine - - an armed man seized a long - distance bus and took people in it hostage in northwestern ukraine on tuesday launching an hours - long standoff with police , ukrainian authorities said . about 10 people are currently being held hostage , ukraine ' s security service said in a facebook statement . police earlier had put the number at 20 . it was unclear how many people had been on board to start with , and whether any escaped . police sealed off the centre of lutsk , a city 400 kilometres ( 250 miles ) west of the capital kyiv . the assailant is armed and carrying explosives , police said . they said he threw a hand grenade that failed to explode at officers and shot at them at least twice during the still - ongoing siege . ukrainian president volodymyr zelenskiy said negotiations with the man are currently underway . " we ' re doing everything to free the hostages , " zelenskiy told reporters . the man called the police himself at 9 : 25 a . m . ( 0625 gmt ) after taking control of the bus and introduced himself as maksim plokhoy , deputy interior minister anton gerashchenko said on facebook . in a telegram account reportedly belonging to him , plokhoy apparently admitted to taking people on the bus hostage , said that " the state has always been and always is the first terrorist " and demanded that top ukrainian officials release statements on their social media pages calling themselves terrorists . according to gerashchenko , police have identified the man as maksim krivosh , a 44 - year - old ukrainian born in russia . krivosh had allegedly been convicted twice on a wide range of charges - - robbery , fraud , illegal arms handling - - and spent a total of 10 years behind bars . interior minister arsen avakov travelled to lutsk to supervise operations . ukrainian media reported that gunshots were regularly heard at the scene . it wasn ' t immediately clear whether anyone has been injured . according to reports , krivosh tried to reach out to journalists through hostages and their phones , demanding that they spread the word about his demands and get more reporters to arrive to the scene . zelenskiy said earlier on tuesday he is personally monitoring the situation . 
__label__no_relevant covid - 19 update for may 14 : here ' s the latest on coronavirus in b . c . article contenthere ’ s your daily update with everything you need to know on the novel coronavirus situation in b . c . for may 14 , 2020 . we ’ ll provide summaries of what ’ s going on in b . c . right here so you can get the latest news at a glance . this page will be updated regularly throughout the day , with developments added as they happen . we apologize , but this video has failed to load . tap here to see other videos from our team . try refreshing your browser , or covid - 19 update for may 14 : here ' s the latest on coronavirus in b . c . back to videocheck back here for more updates throughout the day . case summaryas of the latest numbers on may 14 : • total confirmed cases in b . c . : 2 , 392 ( 372 active cases ) • new cases since may 12 , 2020 : 15• hospitalized cases : 59• intensive care : 14• covid - 19 related deaths : 135• recovered : 1 , 885• long - term care and assisted - living homes currently affected : 15• acute care facilities currently affected : 5the next update is thursday at 3 p . m . in - depth : covid - 19 : here are all the b . c . cases of the novel coronavirusguides and links• covid - 19 : here ’ s everything you need to know about the novel coronavirus
__label__no_relevant the conversation : trauma - informed classrooms can better support kids in care september 3 , 2019 —the following article from melanie janzen , associate professor , faculty of education , dawn sutherland , professor and department head of ctl , faculty of education , and kathryn levine , associate professor with the faculty of social work , was published online by the conversation : as teachers return to school , they ’ re thinking about the students who they ’ ll be getting to know . in our province , manitoba , there are some students who are becoming more prominent in the minds of teachers , particularly the students who arrive at school in the care of child and family service agencies . our team of researchers from the faculties of education and social work at the university of manitoba are learning about how educators in one school division are working to better support children in care . in part , that is through understanding and enacting trauma - informed practices in classrooms and schools . that means engaging children in ways that acknowledge how trauma may have shaped their experiences . children in care and traumamanitoba has among the highest rates of children in care in the world . in 2015 , marni brownell , a professor at the department of community health sciences and a researcher at the manitoba centre for health policy ( mchp ) at the university of manitoba , led a team that studied the educational outcomes of children in care in the province . read more : canada guilty of forging crisis in indigenous foster carethe mchp provided clear data on what many families , students and education and child welfare professionals already knew : that the educational outcomes for children in care were abysmal . the study found that whereas 89 per cent of manitoba ’ s students graduate on time , only 33 per cent of students who are or who have been in care realize that same achievement . we collaborated with one manitoba school division that has decided to prioritise the needs of children in care in order to improve their educational outcomes and experiences . trauma and hyperarousalmany children , adolescents and families who are involved with the child welfare system have been exposed to multiple and chronic traumatic experiences . these can range from witnessing domestic violence and addiction , to experiencing neglect and emotional , physical , sexual or psychological abuse and intergenerational trauma . this includes the legacy associated with indian residential schools and systemic underfunding of first nations infrastructure . canada ’ s truth and reconciliation commission , advocates and researchers have linked both to cultural genocide . children and youth have made it clear that when they are removed from what is assessed as an unsafe environment like their home , this does not result in feelings of safety . the trauma associated with allegations and investigations of abuse , being separated from family and siblings , being placed with strangers and having to conform to different expectations all act to maintain a state of hyperarousal in the child . trauma has pervasive physiological , psychological and emotional impacts : research from the national child traumatic stress network shows that children who have experienced trauma can have difficulties identifying and managing their feelings , controlling their impulses , forming relationships and concentrating and interpreting social situations , among other things . in the short term , children may not have the coping or social skills to engage with teaching staff or peers . children who have experienced trauma often have impaired academic performance and are likely to internalise these difficulties as failure . in the long term , these challenges are likely to result in low academic achievement and higher rates of absenteeism both of which are significant factors influencing school drop outs . clearly , teachers must be sensitive to the trauma experienced by children and their families who are involved with the child welfare system . a trauma - informed lensthrough practice and research and in response to the lived experiences and advocacy of the families , social workers ’ conceptual understandings of children and families involved with the child welfare system are shifting . a trauma - informed perspective prompts professionals to shift from asking what is wrong with people involved with the child welfare system , to considering what has happened to the child and family . the question “ what is wrong ? ” implies that once identified , the problem can be fixed by focusing on the individuals . it also may imply a fault of the individuals rather than systemic inequities , approaches and issues . conversely , the question “ what happened ? ” recognizes that the seemingly challenging behaviours , maladaptive coping responses and interpersonal relationship difficulties are responses to traumatic experiences . sense of safetyin our preliminary research , we are documenting schools ’ collaborations with various child welfare agencies and their efforts to better support children in care . educators are starting to engage in trauma - informed practices as a way to recognize that the most urgent need is to establish the child ’ s sense of safety in the school . what makes a school environment feel safe ? according to australian psychologist howard bath , the consistency , reliability , predictability , availability , honesty and transparency of adults who care for children contribute to both emotional and physical safety of children . when children feel safe , they can form trusting relationships . it is only in the context of these connections that they can then learn to understand and manage their trauma responses . school leaders that we interviewed shared many examples of how they are enlisting what bath identifies as the three pillars of care into their school and classrooms : safety , connections and coping . educators described making sure that children had a number of “ go - to ” adults in the building in addition to their classroom teachers , as well as “ go - to ” places if they felt overwhelmed . others talked about the importance of making space for and really listening to kids ’ questions , such as “ where are my siblings ? ” then , these educators would work with the social worker to find answers for children . connections and envisioning the futureeducators also spoke of the importance of children forming connections with others and building trusting relationships . they talked about the importance of making sure kids were connecting to other kids and setting aside time and space to ensure that happens , for example , in the form of supportive recess groups . some educators organised regular lunches with children . one high school principal explained how he worked to get children in care involved . he described one student whose confidence was excelling as she led the environmental club ’ s campaign to ban plastic bags . another school told us how they supported a group of high school youth in care in forming their own advocacy club where the youth could bring allies . this led to these students supporting each other in their advocacy , academic pursuits and in conversations about life after high school . sometimes trauma manifests in what looks like to adults as misbehaviours . the educators we spoke to recognized how children or youth who have been traumatized often need support in learning how to identify , cope with and manage emotions . these educators reassured children that their school was a place where all of their feelings were welcome and worked with them to better understand and express these feelings . we encourage all educators to think about the variety of experiences students may have had this summer . 
__label__no_relevant moving company helping domestic violence victims “ you go in and you ’ re moving somebody out of [their] abusive situation , not only do they need respect , ” said moss . “ but they deserve respect . they also deserve confidentiality . nobody wants this kind of thing out there . and they don ’ t want their business known . and working through an accredited facility that knows how to handle the process that ’ s the approach that we ’ re taking and we ’ re not doing this fly by night . ” 
__label__no_relevant ontario cartoonist often draws on link to newfoundland a awelland , ont . —as a kid , sandra bell - lundy loved getting leftover paper bundles from the local paper mill , where her uncle worked . “ everyone in the family knew i was the one who liked to draw , ” she said . “ i was always doodling . it was a hobby… as i got older , i ’ d draw little cartoons about my friends just to lampoon them . ” it ’ s paid off for the 61 - year - old , who went on to create the " between friends " cartoon strip , which was launched in 1990 and currently appears in 175 newspapers worldwide — from canada and the united states to australia , india and trinidad . in canada , around 40 newspapers publish the cartoon , including the toronto star , the montreal gazette , calgary herald and the telegram . the strip features three middle - aged professional women — susan , maeve and kim — who cope with life problems , from everything to family , marriage and work to aging and the changing world while all the while highlighting strong friendships . sandra bell - lundy has mentioned newfoundland a few times in her comic strip between friends . it ' s because her mother and grandmother were born in this province . fans not only find it funny and entertaining , but also relatable . “ i found over the years , there ’ s a lot of commonality in the humour of women , ” bell - lundy told the telegram earlier this week during a phone interview from her home in welland , ont . “ everyone ’ s a little bit different , but there are some core things that seem to hit across the board . ” bell - lundy , who grew up in st . catharines , ont . , has also tackled some serious topics in her cartoon — from fertility treatment and adoption to domestic violence , which earned her high acclaim and kudos internationally . she ’ s also garnered attention in newfoundland and labrador , as her cartoon has made several mentions of this province . it ’ s because bell - lundy has a strong connection — both her mother ( shirley bell , nee graham , age 85 ) and grandmother ( harriet graham , nee taylor , born 1900 ) were born here . her mother is from harbour le cou , while her grandmother was from grand bruit – both small outport towns on the southwest coast of the island . “ it only seemed natural for me to insert it ( into the comic strip ) , ” bell - lundy said . bell - lundy has heard plenty about life in this province and visited grand bruit with her mother about 10 years ago . “ my mother had never been there before , so it was nice for her to see where her mother lived , ” she said . the stories she ’ s heard from her mother throughout the years affected bell - lundy so much , she ’ s been compiling them and doing research about life in outport newfoundland years ago , with the hopes of putting it together for a graphic novel . “ i ’ m fascinated with it , because we used to visit my grandparents pretty much every other summer when we were kids , ” she said . “ my perspective as an adult , the things my mother told me when i was younger , now when i think about them , have had such a huge impact on me . ” one of the stories she recalls is how her grandmother , as an eight - year - old in the early 1900s , and her two siblings were sent away to harbour le cou from grand bruit to live with other families because their parents were unable to provide for them . “ that really got to me because when my daughter was eight , my mother gave me this glass candy dish . it ’ s not crystal or valuable , but it was the same glass candy dish that her grandmother ( my great - grandmother ) had given to my grandmother when she had left home as an eight - year - old , ” said bell - lundy , who has a daughter and son , both university graduates . “ so , when my mother gave it to me , it was just a real jolt . i looked at my eight - year - old daughter , who was in dance class at the time and thought , ' wow , what those small outport communities had to do to survive was incredible . ' it made me realize how hard that must ’ ve been . “ that ’ s when i really started paying a little more attention to what i had heard over the years . it was around that time , i did that little story line about newfoundland . ” bell - lundy took a second trip to this province with her daughter , “ because i wanted my daughter to see where my mother and grandmother were brought up . the kids hear me talk about it all the time . ” her mother moved out of newfoundland when she was 17 , but bell - lundy still loves to sit and listen her parents talk about their lives in newfoundland . “ once she starts and the longer we chat , the more comes out , ” said bell - lundy , who plans to visit the province again , as she has relatives in port aux basque , corner brook and paradise . “ as she talks , the more she remembers and i just love to hear it . ” cartoonist sandra bell - lundy has touched on some serious topics in her between friends comic strip , including a series featuring one of her characters , susan and her husband harvey ’ s , fertility treatments and subsequently adoption of an eight - month - old girl , emma . ( printed with permission of king features ) - contributedtwitter : telyrosiemore by rosie mullaley
__label__no_relevant homicide rates down across canada , but hit record high in ontario ontario had its highest homicide rate since 1991 , with 266 murdersdata from statistics canada shows murders are down across canada , except in ontariovancouver ( news 1130 ) – new data from statistics canada shows homicide rates are down across the country , except in ontario , where they reached a record high . there were 651 homicide victims in the country in 2018 , and the numbers were down almost everywhere . british columbia had 30 fewer homicides than 2017 , alberta 38 fewer and nova scotia 10 fewer . but in ontario , the numbers were up . toronto had the highest number of homicides on record for a census metropolitan area last year , with 142 in total . that ’ s a 50 per cent increase in the homicide rate over the year before . ontario had its highest homicide rate since 1991 , with 266 murders . both vancouver and b . c . as a whole had decreases in the number of murders . gang - related killings were also down , with b . c . seeing the biggest drop . while the overall trend is promising , the data showed domestic cases are up . women were three times more likely than men to be killed by a current or former partner in 2018 . 
__label__no_relevant new rcmp foot patrol launches this summer in iqaluit “ opening lines of communication will empower them to take back a bit of ownership ” by courtney edgarthis week , rcmp boots hit the dirt in iqaluit to begin a new summer foot patrol . staff - sgt . garfield elliott walked along federal rd . , up queen elizabeth , on the afternoon of wednesday , july 11 , stopping at businesses along the way and introducing himself to passersby . according to elliott , the idea behind this approach is to increase police visibility in iqaluit , improve trust in the community and help create a variation of a neighbourhood watch program in which citizens can feel more comfortable and safe contacting police when in need of help or when others are in distress or danger . elliott suggested the idea at the june 26 city council meeting , when he presented an rcmp report about crime statistics for the first half of 2018 . at that meeting , he explained that may had been “ a very difficult month for the detachment ” when it came to violent crime , including two recent homicides . he also said that foot patrols would make it easier to do preventive policing , by which officers direct people to programming and otherwise let them know where to find help . at the june meeting , elliott said that he would like to see the police showing compassion to people who are in a difficult spot rather than simply “ scooping them up ” in an arrest . “ opening lines of communication will empower them to take back a bit of ownership , ” elliott said of the city ’ s residents at the june 26 meeting . he wants the community to see the person who is behind the rcmp uniform―and for the officers to get to know the public . elliott hopes that by having at least one police officer out on the streets two or three times a week , iqaluit residents will start to feel encouraged to make a phone call when they see disputes break out or when crimes occur in a public place , or to make a call before violence has the chance to escalate . in june 2017 , staff - sgt . matco sirotic told city council that the city and territory have a “ high crime severity index ” and that the most detachment time is spent responding to calls about assault and domestic violence . it ’ s not uncommon for the iqaluit detachment to have two calls sitting in the queue while members are responding to a third , “ which sounds like a big city setting , ” sirotic said in june 2017 . this time last year , the call volume on these issues was down from previous years , but still quite high with 263 instances of assault and 34 sexual offences . however , in the second half of 2017 , the numbers of these types of crime more than doubled to 627 assaults and 71 sexual offences over just six months . the beer and wine store opened in iqaluit during this period . in april of this year , nunatsiaq news reported that elliott told city council that the total increase in crime since then had been “ marginal ” and that the rcmp was considering a review to better understand the impacts the wine and beer store may have had on crime in iqaluit . elliott said that in april he was referring to crimes in general that had been increasing marginally and was not focusing on any particular categories . he said he is not in a position to say if there is a direct link between the beer and wine store opening and the rise in calls because the store has been open for just under a year . however , he is working on a report to compare statistics on crimes over the years , to see what factors might be behind some categories of crime . “ high rates of assault and sex offences have been the case since i started working in the territory in 2010—that doesn ’ t mean we don ’ t try to change those things , ” said elliott . during the first half of 2018 , there were 374 reported cases of assault and 44 reported sexual offences , which is slightly lower than last year ’ s numbers but still higher than in previous years . the need for foot patrols—and for encouraging residents to contact police when there are warning signs of violence—followed from specific acts of spousal abuse in may . these had escalated in severity before the police were contacted . by then it was too late . “ that kind of evolved into the discussion about a neighbourhood watch , ” elliott said . it isn ’ t realistic to think that the alcohol problem in iqaluit will be solved immediately , he said . it will probably take a few years , he added . but if witnesses start to feel more comfortable contacting police at earlier stages of a crime , it might help reduce or prevent escalation . when elliott stopped at a dental office to say hello and introduce the concept of the foot patrol to the employees on wednesday , receptionist keri bugbe said it was “ very cool to see ” . just in the last few months , she had to call the rcmp twice during the day to intervene when she saw someone drunk and running through traffic . “ i ’ d seen you walking a few minutes ago just down there and i go , ‘hmm , i ’ ve never seen police doing foot patrol here . ’ maybe down south you see that sometimes , but never here , ” bugbe said . 
__label__no_relevant no covid - 19 cases announced tuesday the covid - 19 outbreak at northwood ' s halifax campus is considered resolved after completing 28 days with no active casesnews releasecovid - 19 / health / wellness * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * as of today , july 7 , nova scotia has four active cases of covid - 19 . no new cases were identified on monday , july 6 . the qeii health sciences centre ' s microbiology lab completed 291 nova scotia tests on july 6 and is operating 24 - hours . there are no licensed long - term care homes in nova scotia with active cases of covid - 19 . as of monday , july 6 , the covid - 19 outbreak at northwood ' s halifax campus is considered resolved after completing 28 days with no active cases . to date , nova scotia has 55 , 428 negative test results , 1 , 065 positive covid - 19 cases , 63 deaths and four active covid - 19 cases . cases range in age from under 10 to over 90 . nine - hundred and ninety - eight cases are now resolved . two people are currently in hospital . both patients ' covid - 19 infections are considered resolved but they are being treated in hospital . cases have been identified in all parts of the province . cumulative cases by zone may change as data is updated in panorama . if you have any one of the following symptoms , visit https : / / 811 . novascotia . ca to determine if you should call 811 for further assessment : - - fever ( i . e . chills , sweats ) - - cough or worsening of a previous cough - - sore throat - - headache - - shortness of breath - - muscle aches - - sneezing - - nasal congestion / runny nose - - hoarse voice - - diarrhea - - unusual fatigue - - loss of sense of smell or taste - - red , purple or blueish lesions on the feet , toes or fingers without clear causewhen a new case of covid - 19 is confirmed , public health works to identify and test people who may have come in close contact with that person . those individuals who have been confirmed are being directed to self - isolate at home , away from the public , for 14 days . anyone who has travelled outside of atlantic canada must self - isolate for 14 days . as always , any nova scotian who develops symptoms of acute respiratory illness should limit their contact with others until they feel better . it remains important for nova scotians to strictly adhere to the public health order and directives - practise good hand washing and other hygiene steps , maintain a physical distance when and where required , and wearing a non - medical mask is strongly recommended when physical distancing is difficult . as of july 3 , interprovincial travel within nova scotia , new brunswick , prince edward island and newfoundland and labrador , without the requirement to self - isolate for permanent atlantic canadian residents , is permitted . all public health directives of each province must be followed . under nova scotia ' s health protection act order , visitors from other canadian provinces and territories must self - isolate for 14 days . other visitors from outside the atlantic provinces who have self - isolated for 14 days in another atlantic province may travel to nova scotia without self - isolating again . nova scotians can find accurate , up - to - date information , handwashing posters and fact sheets at https : / / novascotia . ca / coronavi rus . businesses and other organizations can find information to help them safely reopen at https : / / novascotia . ca / reopenin g - nova - scotia . quick facts : - - testing numbers are updated daily at https : / / novascotia . ca / coronavi rus - - a state of emergency was declared under the emergency management act on march 22 and extended to july 12additional resources : government of canada : https : / / canada . ca / coronavirusgovernment of canada information line 1 - 833 - 784 - 4397 ( toll - free ) the mental health provincial crisis line is available 24 / 7 to anyone experiencing a mental health or addictions crisis , or someone concerned about them , by calling 1 - 888 - 429 - 8167 ( toll - free ) kids help phone is available 24 / 7 by calling 1 - 800 - 668 - 6868 ( toll - free ) for help or information about domestic violence 24 / 7 , call 1 - 855 - 225 - 0220 ( toll - free ) * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
__label__no_relevant firearms ban slammed as undemocratic “ i think the impact will be so small and negligible that it calls into question , is the government really using taxpayers money most effectively , to achieve the goal of public safety ? ” sturgeon river - parkland mp dane lloyd said . gun retailers and advocates say the way the canadian government passed its new firearms ban was undemocratic . dane lloyd , mp for sturgeon river - parkland , said the changes were not brought forward for debate or discussion before prime minister justin trudeau , public safety mnister bill blair , justice minister david lametti and deputy prime minister chrystia freeland announced a new crackdown may 1 on firearms , banning the sale , purchase , transport , import and use of around 1 , 500 variations . “ we don ' t really have an opportunity as canadians to debate this in parliament and to push forward with legislation that i think most canadians can get behind , ” lloyd said . the move by the federal government has garnered praise and protest from various groups across the country . michael davison , managing partner at bartons big country in grande prairie , said he was disappointed in how the legislation was introduced . “ this is not the way government is supposed to operate , ” davison said . the new legislation was passed through an order in council , which means it did not get debated by mps . “ there ' s absolutely zero foundation to justify the size and scope of the effort , ” michael davison , managing partner at bartons big country in grande prairie , said . the move came several weeks after a gunman posed as an rcmp officer and launched an attack on rural nova scotia . he killed twenty - two people : some were shot and others died in fires he set . “ enough is enough . banning these firearms will save canadian lives , ” said blair when the legislation was announced . shane vaughan , owner of cx shooters supplies in morinville , said he fully expected this legislation to come in after there had been rumblings for a while throughout the industry . but vaughan said the move will likely not increase public safety or curb firearm violence in the country . vaughan noted the nova scotia shooter did not buy his firearms legally and smuggled them in from the united states . “ ( trudeau ) has just made those firearms that much more valuable on the black market because the bad guys , unfortunately . . . will smuggle firearms across the border , ” vaughan said . the firearms were already heavily regulated , with shooters needing a special licence , course and background check before owning them . davison noted canadian weapons are much different than their american counterparts and canada sells the “ neutered ” versions . davison said the new legislation won ’ t be effective and many canadians don ’ t understand firearms . “ i am astounded at the ignorance of the public , ” davison said . the gun shop managing partner said gun laws at the federal level are too broad . “ the root issue in canada that the u . s . doesn ' t have is we ' re a bigger landmass than the u . s . trying to govern something like firearms at the federal level . so they ' re saying that the same firearms laws should apply in nova scotia as they do in alberta , ” davison said . in alberta , there are a lot of farmers who have open land in rural areas . “ crime ( is ) spiking again – it ' s a real issue for us . we need to be able to protect our homes . you need to be able to deal with a nuisance coyote attacking your family pet in the driveway . we need to be able to respond to the simple little things that people in urban areas don ' t understand , ” davison said . davison called the gun legislation in canada a “ frankenstein ” of piecemeal legislation put together by people who do not understand guns or the industry . “ somebody gets an idea and they make an amendment but they don ' t go to the root of the law that they ’ re amending to actually fix it where it needs to be fixed . so you end up with a band - aid , this patch , another band - aid , another patch . it ' s an absolute frankenstein . it just needs to be stripped and rewritten , ” davison said . dane lloyd , mp for sturgeon river - parkland , said the move is going to be a waste of taxpayers money . the federal government is looking into a buyback program to compensate gun owners . “ i think if they engage in a massive gun buyback , it ' s going to be a waste of taxpayers money . it ’ s wasteful and ineffective . i don ' t think it ' s going to protect any lives , because they ' re only going after to the people who already obey the law , ” lloyd said . the mp said a gun buyback will cost taxpayers $1 billion . “ is a billion dollars a good amount of money to spend on keeping our streets safe ? yes , absolutely . but i think the question i would ask is , is that the most effective use of a billion dollars ? ” lloyd said he would rather see the government focus on finding better tools to stop the smuggling of illegal firearms from the united states and giving police the tools to go after violent criminals who have firearms illegally . “ i think the impact will be so small and negligible that it calls into question , is the government really using taxpayers money most effectively , to achieve the goal of public safety ? ” lloyd said . tracking how illegal firearms are moving into canada can be difficult . statistics canada has very little data on how illegal weapons are moving into the country . an annual report by the rcmp ’ s firearms operations and enforcement support unit put out in 2014 found that 114 of the 229 gun crimes successfully traced in british columbia , alberta , saskatchewan , manitoba , the northwest territories and yukon involved weapons that were supplied domestically . in 2014 in alberta , 15 guns used in crimes were smuggled in while 32 were sourced domestically . most of the guns that were banned in april were used for hunting or for hobby target shooting competitions , vaughan noted . vaughan said he would like to see the details of the upcoming gun buyback program , details of which haven ’ t been release yet , and noted the move will leave many gun shop owners sitting on thousands of dollars in inventory that they cannot sell . family violencethose battling domestic violence welcome the tightening of gun laws . jan reimer , the executive director of the alberta council of women ’ s shelters , said the group is a strong advocate for gun control . “ our main concern is not so much about guns , it ' s about the violence perpetrated on women and how guns , when they are readily accessible , become a vehicle for expressing that violence , ” reimer said . “ we know we ' ve certainly seen some horrific examples of that in the last couple of weeks . women are intimidated , they ' re killed with guns , they ' re shot with guns and it is a weapon of choice in domestic homicides . ” reimer said beyond domestic homicides , guns can also be used to intimidate the family inside the home . “ often in cases , you know , you have the gun propped up here in the corner . it should be appropriately locked and secured but it ' s also there as a symbol of intimidation , ” reimer said . according to statistics canada , more canadians die by handguns than any other type of firearm . in 2018 , 143 people were killed with a handgun , 56 were killed with a rifle or shotgun , two were killed with a fully automatic firearm and 18 died from a sawed - off rifle or shotgun . 
